Profs To Debate Saturday Classes

Three major items willbe on
the agenda as the faculty meets
for the first time since spring
break at 4:15 Monday in ARI-l
Auditorium.

One item of business will be
the proposed instructor evalu-
ation which has been drawn up
by the Subcommittee on Edu—
rational Policy. See elsewhere
in the 5&8 for a detailed des-
cription of thatproposed evale
uatton.

Another item ofbusiness will
be a proposal to eliminate all
Saturday classes by setting
two hour and a half classper-
iods for Tuesday and Thurs-
day mornings between 9 and
noon. American Civilization
and Humanities Iectureswould
be moved to late afternoon as
part of the proposed schedule
change.

The proposal originated in
the office of the Registrar,
Charles Seller. A portion of

the Executive Council and all
of the Academic Standing

Committee have looked at the
proposal and commented on it.
As a result a few minor chan-
ges were made which will be
represented in the proposal
that will be made to the fac-
uIty on Monday.

The most important item of
business on Monday’s agenda
is the Executive Council’s new
plan for faculty reorganiza-
tion. This plan is an alterna-
tive to President Glenn Legs
gett's plan and to JamesMag-
ee’s proposal.

The chief thrust of the Exe-
cutive Council plan is to ex~
pand the role of that body in
college affairs. The plan pro~
poses that the Executive
Council assume the role ofthe
Budget Priorities Planning
Committee. .

Other functions ofthe Execu-
tive Council have been dele-

gated to the College Educa-
tional Policies Committee,
which would consist of a stud-
ent and a faculty member from
each division, the Chairman of
the Faculty. the Dean of the
College and theSGApresident.
The EPC would have over
sight overall curriculum mat-
ters, except that the Executive
Council must approve allpro-
posals of the EPC that have
staffing implications. In addi-
tion, the EPC is “subject to
the power of control delega-
ted by the Trustees to [l'lEEX*
ecutive Council."

Unlike the Magee plan, the
Executive Council plan does
not call for the elimination of
the standing committees of
the faculty. Chairman of the
Faculty Beryl Clotfelter said
that that issue can be taken
up later, although he feels

(continued to page 6)

litre soar-lob

El Hum/v,”

? I816 .

§ SQ
2

$0M IOWENSE 0“

VOL. LXXIX NO. 15

APRIL 9, 1971

Grinnell, Iowa 50112

Trustees Cut Budget By $ll3,l08

The Trustees orowa College
(Grinnell) approved the 1971*
72 budget this weekend during
its spring meeting.

The total budget is $5,954,
525, a cut of $113,108 from
last year's budget of just over
$6 million.

The budget reflects an in?
crease of $222,000 in tuition
and fees income due to a $175
per student hike and an in-
crease of 50 students, and a
decrease of $380,000 in un-
restricted gift income, plus a
few other revenue adjust-
ments.

All unrestricted gift income
above the $585,000 budgeted
will be applied to reduce the
Plant Fund deficit, which is
now approaching $1.5 million.
(This year the Development
Office hopes to collect $966,
000 in unrestricted gifts.)

Cuts in the budget came pri-
marily by reducing salaried
positions in the college (about
$150,000) and by cuttingsmall
amounts in a large number of
line items (veryapproximaté-
lYi $190,000).

These cuts were offset by

increases in salaries and war
ges (about $100,000) and in-
creases in staff benefits, in*
surance costs, utilities fees
and the new item of maintenr
ance for the phys. ed. com-
plex (total: about $125,000).

Three of the areas most
heavily cut were the Alumni/
Development Offices, the Ada
missions Office and the Dean
of Students Office. All these
cuts reflect the elimination
of personnel.

There will be two fewer Dee
velopment personnel (although
new Alumni Ofﬁce head Chris
Nielsen will continue to do
Development work), one less
admissions counselor, two
fewer Resident Advisers and
other reductions in Dean of
Students Office personnel. In
addition, Other items (espec-
ially travel) in the three bud»
gets have been cut.

The cut in the three budgets
totals almost $70,000.

Another heavily cut area is
the item of academic equip*
ment, where a cut of $21,000
has been made. However, that
cut is not as great asitseems

STUDENTS and Trustees mingled freely in Loose

Lounge Saturday evening.

(Photo by Marty Sachs)

since a Sloan Foundation Grant
will supply a great deal of
science equipment that nor-
mally would have been paid
for out of this item.

Among the departments, Fr-
ench, music, theatre, biology,
chemistry, psychology and
education all show substantial
cutbacks, While anthropology,
economics and American stu-
dies are the only ones with
significant increases.

French, theatre, biology and
chemistry will all have one
less faculty member. Biology
and education are losingpartr
time help, while psychology
will need to share its techni-
cian with physics.

Music may be forced to hire
a part-time man to replace
David Wooldridge, visitingas-
sociate professor of music
and orchestra conductor.

In theatre, production costs
have been reduced, making it
necessary for the department
to choose less expensivepiays

(continued to page 6)

DICK‘ﬁzEEORY
(Photo by John Rowell)

Gregory Examines Hypocrisy

by Bill Knecht

Approximately 1000 souls
crammed into Darby Gym
Monday night to hear Dick
Gregory, one of the black
community's finest social sa-
tirists.

Gregory, voted by the Ku
Klux Klan to be the “man
they mosthate,” leveledacerb
commentary at anything and
everything newsworthy, from
Calley to Commies. Reactions
varied from raucous laughter
to stonefaced silence as he
played hypocrisy against
hypocrisy to create a humor
that was a cross between a
threat, a plea, an intimida»
tion, and an explanation.

Some outstanding lines ofthe
night:

On Nixon: ”I do not believe
it is humanly possible for that
man to be as dumb as he is."
"Nixon gOt a nice look like
anything ever happened, he
guilty.”

On racism: “Your racism
don‘t bother us, it’s, your
insanity that scares us." “See
paratism don't seem to bother
Americans as long as it‘s
happenin’ in Amerim." "You
stab us with a lcnife, then get
upset ’cause we bleed on the
rug."

On civil rights: ”Same uni-

lmperialism lectures Continue

The History Department’s
Symposium on Modern Imper-
ialism continues this week
with three lectures and the
showing of three films.
Monday night, at 8 p.m. in
the South Lounge, Professor
John Morris (Psychology)will
lecture on "Frantz Fanon: A
Psychological Perspective."
Fanon is the black psychiar
trist and author of ”Black
Skin, White Masks,"and ”The
Wretched of the Earth."
Kenyan NovelistJames Ngugi
will speak on "The Reaction of
African Writers to Imperial-
ism", Tuesday at 4:00 p.m. in
the South Lounge. Ngugi has
written several novels setar-
ound the time of the Mau-Mau
revolt in Kenya, describing
the effects of the struggle for
independence in Kenya on the
Klkuku people. According to
a reviewer in "Africa Con~
temporary Record”, Ngugi’s
latest novel on the immediate
post MaurMau period “goes
beyond, and in a sense turns

away from" traditional th’
emes in African literature in
considering the questions of
how the African adjusts to
peace after winning a war for
independence from imperial-
ist ruler

Thursday, Professor David
Hamilton of the University of
Iowa will speak on "Imper-
ialism and Anti-Imperialism
in China," at 8:00 p.m. in the
South Lounge.

The Senegalese film "Man-
dahi” will be shown Tuesday
and Wednesday, April 13 and
14, at 9:30 p.m. in ARl—I Audi-
torium. The film portrays the
difficulty a Senegalese citizen

has in simply cashinga money ‘

order in Dakar.

The film ”Beau Geste" will
be shown April 16 and I9, and
the final lecture of the sym-
posium will be Sunday, April
18, when Mr. Ronald Steel,
author of "Pax Americans"
will speak on modern Amerir
can foreign poll in terms of
and in relationt perialism.

versal intelligence bank that
put white folks' haid together
put black folks' haid to-
gether." “For a hundred
years, you whitemanhas given
me 34¢ change for my dollar,
now he's givin' me 64¢ ’and
you (all that progress.”

On how blacks want to head-
dressed by whites: “You can
call us anything you want to
call us, we just sayin' that it-
may be safer to callus ‘black'
. . . If nothin' else, I can
identify with nighttime."

On being black: ”I had to go
all the way to Black Africa to
find out I'm a chocolate-
covered white boy . . . all my
hangups are white."

On God in America: "If Ame
erica was an example of a
‘nation under God', then I
shore as Hell would hate to
see one under the Devil." In
America, we worship the
"jolly Green Jesus.”

Oh the War in Southeast As‘
is: “You can take yo' Air
Force to any country in the
world ’n bomb the hell out of
'em, but as long as you don’t
use no ground troops, that‘s
not an ‘invasion'." “When 98%
of all North Vietnamese
equipment comes from Rus-
sia, how come we’re not mad
at the Russians7"Suppose 98%
of this stuff came from Ghana
. . . 7 “Bet we would have de~
clared war on Ghana four

(continued to page 3)

Ahmad To Come

Dr. Eqbal Ahmad will speak
in South Lounge at 2 p.m.
Tuesday.

Ahmad isaccused of conspir-
ing, along with the Berriyn
brothers and various priests
and nuns, to kidnap presiderr
tial assistant Henry Kissinge];

He is a Fellow of the Adlai
Stevenson Institute in Chicago
and is a specialist on under'
developed countries. He is
currently studying revolution.

The telecast of Nicholas
Johnson's speech at Grinnell
last Thursday will be shown
on educational television at
9 p.m. Monday.

The two stations affiliated
with the Iowa Educational Br-
oadcasting Network (IEBN),
KDIN-TV Channel 11 in Des
Moines and KIIN-TV Channel
12 in Iowa City will both
broadcast the 90-minute
videotape.

 

