Semester To Feature More Debates, little Innovation

by Greg Butcher

In speaking with Grinnell's
two student government lead-
ers, it appears that we maybe
in for another semester much
like last one-~basically, dull.

Andy Loewi, SGA president,
says that most of this semes-
ter‘s action will be generated
by President Glenn Leggett's
forth~coming position paper
on the restructuring of am.
demic decision‘making. That
paper is expected to include
proposals for including stud-
ents in the decisionrmaking
process and for realigning the
divisions. Loewi anticipates
anather twelve weeks of debate
in faculty meetings on this

paper.

Greg Vranicar, student cor
ordinator, presents the possi‘
bility that students may pre»
pare an extensive courseevals
nation; bur-and here's the
ruh--only if there is a great
deal of student enthusiasm
and input for the project. He
says that any excitement this
semester will come from
committees, not from the Sens
ate.

Speculation continues to cirr
culate concerning national
student political activism.
Will the recent conspiracy in-
dictments ofPhil Berrigan and
company or the continued ex-
pansion of the U.S. role in
Indochina spark new waves of

student activism? The best
guess is probably no; but if
national student activism is
once more aroused, its effects
will probably be felt here in
Grinnell.

In committeework, the Social
Services Committee has re
commended to President Leg-
gett that there be four coeop/
project houses next year. The
student faculty housing comr
mittee is expected to propose
new coed dorms, including
possibly one more to be coed
by rooms, and perhaps a new
method of electing hall presi—
dents (by dorm, immediately
following room draw).

Dean of Administration Wain
do Walker is preparing an in

title scarlet

ET HUMANQ

. Q“ E
.-

>
E
[OWENSE

VOL. LXXIX NO. 8

JANUARY 22, 1971

GRINNE LL, IOWA 501 12

Honorary Titles To ThreeProis

Three members of the Grinr
nell College faculty have been
named to professional chairs
in recognition oftheirnational
reputations for research and
writing. President Glenn Leg—
gett announced that the designs
ees and their new titles are:
Howard R. Burkle, E.D. Rand
Professor of Applied Christ-
ianity; Kenneth A. Christian-
sen, Harry Waldo Norris Pros
fessor of Biology; and Myron
M. Liberman, Oakes Ames
Professor of English Liters
attire.

Burkle, a member of the Gr'
innell faculty since 1958, holds
advanced degrees in theology
and philosophy from Yale Unis
versity. In 1961-62, he was
the Lilly Foundation Visiting
Lecturer in Christian Ethics
at the International Christian
University in Tokyo. He has
published several articles on
methodological problems in
philosophy of religion, and in
1969 he finished a book, The
Non-Existence of God: Antis
theism from Hegel to Dumery.
The volume attempts to count

eract the contemporary tend~
ency to reduce God to an ideal
or a supreme comic possi-
bility.

Recently Burkle's research
interests have centered on
phenomenology and existent
ialism. In this connection he
has published three articles
on the social philosophy of
Jean-Paul Sartre. The latest
of these, "Sartre's ‘Ideal' of
Social Unity," will appear
this spring in a book on Sartre
edited by Oxford philosopher
Mary Warnock. Burkle is a
member of the Society for
Phenomenology and Existen-
tial Philosophy, the American
Academy of Religion, and the
American PhilosophimlAs-
sociation. The Rand Chair
which Burkle will hold was
created by Carrie A. Rand in
1893 in memory of herfather.
The professorship was last
occupied in 1964.

Christiansen has been a
Grinnell facultymembersince
1955. A graduate of Boston
University, he received his
Ph.D. in biology from Harvard

Milner Gets Study Fellowship

Neal A. Milner, assistant
professor of political science
has been awarded a Science
Faculty Fellowship by the Na-
tional Science Foundation. He
was one of 213fellowshipwins
ners from some 1,000 appli-

There wil be a special
meeting of the faculty
Tucsday at 4:15 in ARH
Auditorium which will be
open to the entire college
community. Dean Joseph
Wall will present figures
on this semester’s course
registrations, Dean Waldo
Walker will discuss the
progress being made on
the college budget, and
President Glenn Leggett
will present his proposals
for restructuring the acar
demic decision-making to
include students and for
realigning the college’s
divisions.

‘Leggett will propose that
student participation in
academic decision-making
be eStablished fornextyear
on a trial basis.

rants. The fellowships are ins
tended to enhance the teaching
effectiveness of college face
ulty members who have dem'
onstrated high professional
ability.

Milner, current chairman of
the department of political
science, will be on leave for
the amdemi’c year 1971-72 to
attend the Center for theStudy
of Law and Society at theUnir
versity of California, Berke-
ley. He will explore the inter-
action between law and other
means of social control as
well as the impact of this in*
teraction on the process of
social change.

Questions that Milner will
study include: How do legal
institutions and systems afs
fect policy output, especially
in urban settings7 Under what
conditions does legal change
bring about the greatest ch-
ange in behavior? What, if
anything, has been the impact
of reform in the legalproccss,
particularly in the area of
criminal justice administras
tion and legal services to the
poor?

University and is a memberof
Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi.
He is an authority on an im-
portant group of soil insects,
the collembola. Christiansen
has written numerousarticles
in biology and entomology and
has been awarded several grr
ants by the National Science
Foundation in support of his
research. In addition tomems
bership in various scientific
organizations, lie is an elect-
ed Fellow of the American
Association for the Advance-
ment of Science and of the
National Speleological Society
and a Correspondent of the
Museum of Paris. Christian-
scn will be the first to hold
the Harry Waldo Norris Pros
fessorsbip, named for a dis-
tinguished zoologist whose
career at Grinnell spanned 50
years (1891r1941).

Liberman has degrees from
Lafayette College and New
York University, and joined
the Grinnell faculty in 1960.
His story, “Big Buick to the
Pyramids," was included in
the 0. Henry Awards Prize
Stories of 1957. The Cums
mington Press,one ofthemost
distinguished producers of
hand-printed limited editions
in the country, published a

(continued to page 4)

terim report of the Budget
Priority Planning Committee
for President Leggett which
will discuss the committee‘s
activities to date. Budgets for
the upcoming fiscal year have
just been received by the com*
mittee, and it will begin its
deliberations on them soon.
Dean of the College Joseph
Wall has been studying the
effects of the elimination of
requirements on class enrollr
ment and will have a fuller
report by the end of the week.
Based upon presregistration
figures, formerly required
courses have n0t fared well,
while individual departments
all seem to have held their
own. The three departments
with the greatest decline in
enrollment this semester ap-
pear to be Theater, Sociology
and French. The greatest
increases in enrollment are
in Biology (especially Biology
II), Philosophy, Anthropology
and Psychology. Enrollments
in Humanities and Science I
are both slightly more than
one third the enrollment of
second semester last year.
Science II has been cancelled
because of a lack of any in-
terest, but more students ap.
pear to be taking Other gen-
eral science courses (such
as astronomy). Foreign lanr
guage enrollment is off 40%
for the first year and 65% in
the second year, according to
these preliminary figures. A
surprising statistic is that
introductory courses in the
fine arts have drawn few stu-
dents. There is apparently
much more interest in the

participation courses (draw
ing, ceramics, acting and
directing). The social studies
seminars have held their own
and enrollment in introductory
courses in the socialsciences
is up by one third.

Dean Wall will report the
results of his latest study to
the faculty at Monday's meet-
ing.

Dean of Students Conney
Kimbo is planning to initiate
a series of meetings between
resident advisers, studentad-
visers and hail officers to see
what people might want to do
in the area of informal hall
activities. Resident adviser
Prudence Milite is planning a
series of dorm discussions on
job and graduate school place-
ment to help students to cope
with the buyers’ market they
now face.

Beryl E. Clotfelter, chair
man of the faculty, is making
few predictions on faculty ac-
tion in the upcoming semest
ter. He expects Dean Wall to
present a plan for smoothing
out the independent study
program, and he forseesmuch
work being put into the fresh-
man tutorials. In addition, he
thinks faculty members may
be getting together ideas for
interdisciplinary courses for
next year on their own.

One major deterrent to any
major innovations during the
semester will be the two-
month absence of President
Leggett, who will leave In
early February for a trip to
Europe which was made posr
sible by a gift from the Dan-
forth Foundation.

Co-op Proposal To Committee A

President Leggett has re*
ferred to Committee A,apro-
posal submitted by the Com*
mittee on Student Services to
eStablish can op living here
next semester. Leggett called
the detailed proposal
“thoughtful."

The Committee stated that
its decision was inﬂuenced by
the results of studentpollsin-
dicating strong interest in
cosop houses. The proposal
urges creation of houses
whose residents willall “cons
centrate on a subject ofstrong
mutual interest." Such groups
would be given preference in
coop assignments,butgroups
without such "strong mutual
interest” would not be auto-
matimlly excluded from con-
sideration.

The program proposes to
start by using four of the CO}.
lege's off- campus residences,
each housing about fifteen

students. The Committeebe-
lieves that in terms of exist<
ing facilities, the off‘campus
houses are more easily con
verted to co. op livingthanare
residence halls. Kitchen and
housekeeping facilities would
be improved so thateacth‘Op
could be "self-sustaining."
Students involved in the
co-ops would have individual
contracts with the college,
clearly stating each party's
obligtions in the arrange-
ment. Co-op residents would
pay the normal room rate plus
a refundable house fee and
damage deposit of about $25.
There would of course be no
board charges.

The Committee indimted a
strong possibility of having
cored co-operative houses,
but added that where such
houses exist, “student rooms
will be assigned only on a
single sex basis."

MerrillNamedRhodes Scholar

Grinnell College can now
boast to having one of the
thirty- two Rhodes Scholars in
the United States on its
mmpus.

Tom Merrill, a seniorhis~
tory major, was chosen by a
committee to receive the
scholarship. This entitles him
to two years at Oxford Unis
versity, where he plans to
prepare his Honors Exams in
Philosophy, Politics, and
Economics.

This course (Usually a
three-year preparation, but
condensed for Rhodes Schol’
ars) will earn for Tom on
English B.A. degree, which
becomes an M.A. after five
years. The preparation for
the exams which will entitle
Tom to this degree, is done
under a tutorial system as
opposed to the lecture-writing

routine here in the U.S.

Professor Don Smith of the
history department, was him-
self a Rhodes Scholar, and it
is through him that Tom ap-
plied for the scholarship,vvith
the permission of President
Leggctt. (For all interested
women, I must add that only
men are eligible.)

He applied in three stages;
First he prepared a written
application (including an es-
say about his academic inter
ests and perspectives, and
recommendations of profesr
sors); then he was called for
an interview witha stateslevel
committee; and finally‘ he was
interviewed for the district
competition, one of the two
representatives of Iowan
schools. This competition ins
Clutiﬁ‘d potcntm | Scholars from
six states in the area, and

was also based on the results
of interviews. According to
Tom, the interviewers “ln'
vestigating" character and
outlook as well as academic
and athletic proficiency (vests
iges of the previous emphasis
on athletics).

Tom views his future study
as a broadening in the social
sciences but he intends to con-
tinue to study history in grad-
uate school.

Jim Tederman will re
place Ric MacDowell as
Assistant Dean of Students
for the nextacademicyear.
Ric has resigned, effectlve
next fall, destination un-

 

