February 19, I971

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Barb lutes Describes Indian Stay

by Laura Shook
This week the 5&8 is featur-

ing a discussion of the ACM
India Studies program as ex~
plained by Barbara Lutes,who
just returned from India last
month.

Barb left Grinnell after first
semester last year, and spent
April and May at Carleton
College doing intensive pre-
paration for her year abroad;
along with sixteen other ACM
students, Barb studiedMarah,
the dialect spoken in Poona.
On weekends, she often went
up to the Ames Asian Library
at the University ofMinnesota
to investigate the possibilities
for an independent project.

On June 20, Barb left for
India, stopping over in Athens
for a week on the way. Upon
arrival at Poona, a beautiful
city famous for its mild cli-
mate, the ACM studentsmoved
into a student hostel, where
they stayed for one month.
While prospective families
'were sought for them, the
Americans attended classes
as a group at Deccan College,
a graduate school affiliated
with the University of Poona.
The director of their prog‘
ram, a professor of religion
from Lawrence College,
mught a seminar on Indian
religions to fill out the prog:

$8.3 Asst.Editor Editor Cracks Up

Last week's issue of The
Scarlet and Black was almost
lost in a snow>covered Iowa
cornfield Thursday morning
as the S&B’s managing editor,
Debbie McKnight, lost control
of the car she was driving to
they'prin‘ter and rolled' “over
four times.

Debbie suffered a broken
clavicle (collarbone, if you
will) and a concussion, but is
recovering on schedule in her
room in Loose. The car she
was driving (Ric MacDowell's
pride and joy) is probably a
total loss (the original esti~
mate was a $750 loss). Cause
of the accident has not finally
been determined.

The accident, which occur-
red two miles outside ofMon—

 

Thanks for
letting us
serve you

POWESHIE

4th & Broad/5m a West - Erinnell

ram of language study. As
well, visiting lecturers spoke
on a broad range of subjects.

The families who finally
"adopted" the Americans
were generally wealthy and
spoke some English. They
were very warm towards their
proteges, and enjoyed teach
ing themabout Indian customs.
Barb found that most Indians
were very concerned about
foreign opinion of their coun-
try and were eager to show
their country offtoforeigners.

Daily living in India was much
different from that in Ameri-
ca. For example, all social
life was family-based, and
usually religious. Barb had
two collegeeage "sisters"and
participated fully in the relie
gious festivals and get-toge-
thers among families,

There were many customs to
adjust to, such as eating with
the right hand only, sitting on
the floor (there were no
chairs), and following a vege-
tarian diet. Barb andthe other
American students soon grew
accustomed to dress in the
native garb , the women were
comfortable in saris, the men
in pajamarlike outfits.

The Amerimns continued to
go to classes at the college,
as well as work on their 8-
credit independent projects

tezuma, left the 5&8 copy
scattered. The members of
the wrecking crew had the
presence of mind to pick up
the copy; they then idly threw
it into the back ofthewrecker,
from whence John Morrissey,
editor of the Montezuma Re»
publican, rescued it for the
3&8.

Meanwhile, Debbie was
picked up by a highway crew
and mken to the sheriff's of-
fice in Montezuma. A deputy
brought her to the Grinnell
Hospital where Dr. Ferguson
set the bone and released her
to the Health Center. About
an hour later, Ric was treat~
ed at the Health Center for a
severe arse of shock, alth~
ough his insurance is expected
to cover the damage.

Motor Bank in a ma

“Whit BANK

am

all year. Barb did hers on
Ayervedic Medicines, the an"
cicnr remedies still practiced
in India. Other topics ranged
from joint family systems to
folk theatre, and one student
apprenticed himself to a sitar
maker as the basis for his
study.

The academic year was div-
ided into three terms, with
two vacatlons oftwoweeks and
one month respectively. Pube
1ic transportation and planes
being very cheap, the students
were able to travel all over
India. Arrangements were un—
reliable and accommodations
poor, but that made each trip
more adventurous. In fact, on
her trip to Northern India,
Barb went hiking in the Him-
alayas, reaching an elevation
of 12,000 feet, where she
viewed Mt. Everest.

Herb and her comrades re*
turned home on December 23,
after a brief but rewarding
year in India.

Anyone else interested in
applying for the program can
contact Charles Sellers. The
emphasis of this year‘s progr
ram will be history, because
the new director of the progr
ram is a history professor
from Carleton.

BARBAR

A. Lures
(Photo by Marty Sachs)

World College Group Formed

by Molne West

An Ad Hoc Committee For
A World College has been
recently formed on this cam-
pus. This committee is pres-
sing for some institutional rer
forms so that Grinnell College
will be "actively involved in
a positive program for the
attainment of a lasting world
peace."

It is the belief of this come
mittee that students must no
longer be content to register
their criticism only toward
particular wars, or to dem—
onstrate simple inclinations
to work part-time for world
peace. Rather, the committee
believes, students must de~
mand that their institutions
realize their full potential as
centers for world peace re-
search and world-wide come
munication of such research,
and that, most importantly,
these institutions must ene

POYNTERS

Fourth Avenue Fashions
BIG BARGAINS

‘ SPORTSWEAR

e During
Washington
Birthday Sale
Feb. 19, 20, 8. 22.

MOYER’S

EAST END
GROCERY

 

GROCERIES
MEAT - BEER

OPEN DAILY
8 a.m. to 8 p.m.

SUNDAY
8:30 to l p.m.
4 p.m. to B p.m.
2 blocks east of Quad
1501 Sixth Ave. 23674465

courage and strengthen those
relationships between the
people of the world that will
create a sense of world citir
zenship and universal dedica-
tion to world peace based on
world law.

The committee has several
specific initial goals, the
achievement of which they
feel will help to both bring
about ‘and demonstrate a new
creative dedication to world
peace on this campus. These
goals follow steps which were
suggested two weeks ago by
Dr. Bill Wickersham of the
World Federalists as neces*
sary for peace to be at all
possible.

First, they require that this
institution and its students
show an allegiance to a world
order based on law, not force.
Thus, Grinnell College must
declare itself a “World Col?
lege,” a part of the world
territory, fly the United New
ions flag beside the national
flag on Central Campus, and
make an annual monetary con
tribution to the U.N.

After this is done, efforts
must be made to “twin” with
a college of another country,
and to fully develop all the
potential for transnational
participation which that rela-
tionship might present. All
these actions are important,
die committee feels, in order
that this college mightstartto
shake off any nationalisticore
ientatiorts it has.

Finally, the committee feels
that some type of organizer
tional body must be establish-
ed that would n0t only coeore
dinate efforts by other organ-
izations of similar interest,
such as the Foreign Student
Board and the Committee on
International Studies, but wo-
uld also initiatenewprograms

tied directly toachievement of
world peace.

Whereas other campus bod-
ies have only an incidental or
secondary concern with world
peace, the committee feels,
there must be one bodyestab-
lished which has that goal as
its primary and implicit cone
cern. This group would place
distinctive emphasis upon ra-

' dically new concepts of world

order rather than on the ela-
boration of the present system
of nation states and the bal-
ance-of—power. It would also
maintain direct communica‘
tion and exchange ofideaswith
peace groups around the
world, informing the students
of new developments and new
opportunities inpeace resear-
ch and action.

Discussions regarding the
implementation of these “Wo-
rld College" plans are now
taking place. Individuals will
have an opportunity earlynext
week to show their support for
these proposals througha for
mal petition to be presented
to the Student Governmentand
the Administration.

Members of the committee
who can be contacted for fur
ther information are Moine
West, Rob Ramer and Janis
Palmer.

Senior Gift

The senior committee has
decided that books for the
library will be this year's
senior gift. It was agreed to
buy new volumes rather than
to ransom those which have
been kidnapped. The additions
will supplement the regular
acquisitions of the library.
Money will be raised by con-
tributions from seniors. It is
hoped that every senior will
give a minimum of 50¢ to a
dollar.

PIZZA!

AHRVANO'S

23676222

236- 6222

 

