May 7, I971

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Urge Profs: Consider Emotions

(continued from page 2)

when blacks spoke ofwhat they
wanted to dealwith in courses.
Gold, Furniss and Rabinowitz
were all criticized for down
playing these two in their
courses.

On the ether hand, white stu-
dents often preferred the
courses that stayed out ofthat
realm, because they had no
personal experiences in being
black.

One of the black students'
complaints was frequently that
when it came to a disagree~
ment between a black student
speaking from experience and
a book, the white student al-
ways sided with the book.
Some of the specific mm,
plaints mentioned earlier in
the article centered around
this difference in what white
students and black students
wanted out of a course.

When asked why they took the
course, white students gave
varied answers. However, a
large number of them men?
tioned that they had had no
contacts with black problems
before coming here. A few
were well-read in black stud-
ies, but most were getting
their first exposure in these
courses.

In contrast, all the blacks
who take the courses have
already had contact withblack
studies before. In addition,
many of them are well-read
in the same materials used
for the course. This differing
background can cause many
problems.

An interesting view of the
situation was offered by one
black student: ‘’The only good
thing about these courses for
black people is that they can
go in the feeling they know as
much or more than white peo-

' GLASSES
Made and Repaired
in Our Laboratory

Contact lenses

Cases and
Solutions

Eyes Examined
Phone 236-3979

E]. Jonson, 0.D.

OPTOMETRIST

Across from Post Office
Closed Thursday p.m.
and Sat. p.m.

Eor school or
typewriter
suppIios

GRINNELL
orncrsurrtv

GRINNELL, town
Across from the Post Office

 

 

ple; I don’t think they feel that
way about any other course."

TEA Cl-IING WHITES

. Many black students feel they

are in the classroom merely
to educate whitesaboutblacks.

Jon Gray: ”The black stud'
ent is there also to aid in
teaching the course to white
students. For instance, who
is better to speak on inner—
city politics than someone who
has gone through the school
system and sees now the need
for such things as community
control. I may not havea highr
sounding degree, but I’ve
grown up all my life In an
urban area and I know what's
going on there."

Booker Carter: “Black stir
dents are put in difficult po»
sitions here. They are not
only looked on as the model
black person, but theyarealso
looked to for answers and to
ease the conscience of white
people.

”When you‘reasked the same
questions every day of the
week, every week of the year,
it gets kind of redundant. Ev-
ery speaker here is asked the
same questions; as Nathan
Wright said, if you want to
know what the problem is,ask
yourself.”

l'N TIM IDATION

Many white students feel in
timidated by the black stud-
ents in their classes. For
example, ”The tension pre-
sent at the beginning of the
course has not been allevia-
ted, and has become worse in
some cases. I was afraid to
express viewpoints often.
Since one incident when a stu-
dent who didn’t understand a
point was pounced on by the
class, students have nor rain
sed points that might be inter-
preted as racist. It‘s hard to
give opinions on issues if
they're going to be measured
either pro or con black."

Cleaver: ”There is some
difficulty about candor in the
classroom. Many white studr
ents are afraid they're going
to put their fact in their
mouth.”

Milner: “Once the blacks
reacted very emotionally to
one girl's question, which
many in the class interpreted
as intimidation. It wasn't.
The only thing I can do is to
ensure that everyone has a
right to speak; if they are un—
willing to express their opin‘
ion clearly, there is nothing
I can do."

A black student: “Sometimes
I get upset at the ignorance
portrayed by so many of the
(white) students."

A white student: “Black stu-
dents said that if you were
sincere, there was no reason
that there couldn't be coexis-
tence. I still don't feel com—
fortable talking to a group of
blacks, because they may be
looking for phoniness.”

OTHER PR OBLEMS

Among the other problems
mentioned during the inter-
views, two of the most fre-
quent were writing style and
grading.

Cleaver: “I’m not hung up on
standard English. A few blacks
have asked me to write in
black English and I've said
okay."

A black student: "White pro-
fessors ask too much of black
students when they write pap‘
ers; they want them to write
white and that's not fair. A lot
of black students come from
high schools that have not
taught them to write analytics
ally. If they can understand
our points, I don‘t think they
should insist on a grammatir
cal, stylistic paper."

A black student on grades:
”The white professors lookto
the black student for answers
they don't know, but the blacks
don't get the best grades. If
you expect someone to teach
something, you should give
them credit for it."

LEAP Thought
Eroln Ne: Perce

“. . . You ask me to plow the
ground.
Shall I take a knife and tear
my mother's breast?
Then when I die
She will not take me to her
bosom to rest.
You ask me to dig for stone.
Shall I dig under her skin for
bones?
Then when I die
I cannot enter her body to be
born again.
You ask me to cut grass and
make hay
And sell it and be rich like
the white man.
But how dare I cut off my
mother’s hair?
It is a bad law and my people
cannot obey it."
“Nez Perce Smohalla,
about 1870

END-OE-YEAR SALE

 

Paperback Book Sale
20% OFF All

Paperback Books
In The Store

(except textbooks)

1 Week Only - May 8th thru May 15

SALE ADVERTISED IN LAST WEEK‘S 5&3
STILL IN EFFECT

COLLEGE BOOK STORE

 

age 7

._...-u

, ‘ , .,

FLOPPY WATCHES critically over Grinnellians as they cram
for papers and exams which are due all too soon. (Photo by

Barry Zigas)

Students Walk To Oppose Draft

A Slaterwide draft repeal
campaign began Wednesday
when a contingent from Iowa
City started an eight day
march to Des Moines. Indivi-
duals and representatives of
various organizations will
carry petitions and letters to
the offices of Senators Miller
and Hughes urging them to
vote against extension of the
draft.

On Saturday, May 9 memb~
ers of another organization,
the New Party, will begin a
three day fast in at least six
cities to call attention to the
draft extension bill now be-
fore the Senate and to urge
Iowans to send telegrams and
letters to Miller and Hughes.

Additional marches are ex-
pected to start from several
other cities including Ames,
Grinnell, and Des Moines, in
time to join the Iowa City
group in Des Moines on May
13. The marchers will talk to
as many groups as possible
on their route along Hiway 6

The music department has
been authorized by the Exe-
cutive Council to seek only a
part-time person to conduct
the orchestra for next year,
replacing David Wooldridge,
Visiting Associate Professor
of Music, who worked here
full-time this year.

William Valentine, instrucr
tor in sociology, has just an-
nounced that he will leave Grr
innell to work in computers
at St. Olaf. Due to his late
resignation and the budget
squeeze, his position will not
be filledti

and hope to speak to both Mil-
ler and Hughes. either person-
ally in Des Moines or by [816’
phone to Washington DC. Th~
ose who are fasting will hold
daily teach~ins and vigils in
oppositions to the draft and
the Indochina war.

The group, which left Iowa
City at S attn. Wednesday
morning, will arrive in Grin-
nell between 2 and 4pm. Sun-
day on Highway 6. Supporters
can plan to meet them on High
way 6 and bring them into
town.

The group will stay at St.
Paul's Episcopal church and
plan to speak at 8:30 p.m. at
another church to be announ-
ced.

Anyone interested in accom-
panying the marchers to Des
Moines should put a note in
Jodie Levin - Epstein‘s Box
607.

Stonkley Wins

Yvor Stoakley won the first
place prize of $50 in the Hill
Speaking Contest held last
week.

Paul Lewis was secondplace
($25) winner, and Jeff Facter
won the thirdplaceprize($15).

Seven students entered the
contest, which involved giving
an extemporaneous speech on
one of three topics the stud-
ents hadpreviously submitted.
They were informedfiftymin-
utes before the time for their
speech which topicthey should
speak on.

They were judged, on the
basis of delivery, organiza»
tion, content. and their gen-
eral ability to persuade the
audience to their viewpoint.

W

938 Main

3 LEVELS OF SHOPS

Ladies and Children’s Wear
Home Furnishings - Gift Ware

.J

 

