Smith To Give Gates Lectures leggeﬂSpeuksOn ACM,Budget

Dr. Huston Smith, Professr
or of Philosophy at the Mass
sachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, will deliver the ann-
ual Gates Memorial Lecture
Series Sunday through Tuesr
day, February 14-15.

The Gates Leotureswere es-
tablished in 1913 by faculty,
alumni, and friends of Grin-
nell College in memory of
the late President George A.
Gates in order to "bring to the
campus the very best of mods
ern thought” on philosophyand
religion.

Smith has devoted his teach*
ing career to bridging intell-
ectual gulfs between East and
West, between science and
humanities, and between the
formal classroom education
and informal education via
films and television.

Born of missionary parents
in SOOchOw, Smith lived in

China until he was 17. His
early years provided an ape
propriate background for sub—
sequent research in the field
of comparative philosophies
and religion. He has supple
mented this background with
field studies in India, Japan,
and Southeast Asia.

A graduate of Central Colin
ege in Missouri, Smith re
ceived his Ph.D. from the U11»
iversity of Chicago in 1945.
He lectured at the University
of Denver and the University
of Colorado before joining the
faculty of Washington Unin
ersity in 1947. The success
of a 1955 series of television
lectures in St. Louis drew
Smith into the vanguard of
adult education through tele-
vision. Since then, three of
his series have been filmed
for nationwide distribution by
NET.

In 1956 he Wasappointedprtr
fessor of philosophyatM.I."l'.,
the first such appointment
since the early days of the
Institute. He accepted the apt
pointment, he said, because
“it offers an uuparrallcled
opportunity to tackle, heads on,
the problem of closing theyp
in understanding which has
developed between the 50ch
tific and humanistic compotr
ents of our culture.”

Smith is the author of “The
Religions of Man," ”Condem-
nod to Meaning," and “The
Purposes of Higher Educa
tion," and he is the editorand
co-author of "The Search for
America." He is a member
of Phi Betta Kappa and thC
Amerimn Philosophical Ase
sociation. Honorary doctoral
degrees have been awarded to
him by Central, Concord, Frr
anklin and lake Forest cola
leges.

Iihl: sear-lab

ET HUMAN,

> lull; 3!—
an“ all alf-
S

0M lDWENSE 6“

VOL. LXXIX NO. 11

GreasedDebaiers SlipThrough

For those of you who are
acquainted with the debate and
speech program at Grinnell,
this writer recently partici~
pated in a typical example of
such forensic activity, The
Mighty Hawkeye Invitational
was held this past weekend in
Iowa, City. ,Grinnell was re-
presented by three teams:
Phil Foster and myself in
the varsity division; Bill Gr-
een, Jeff Factor, Blake Blake-
sley, and Jack Mills in the
junior varsity division. This
year’s national debate topic
is: Resolved: that the fed-
eral government should esta~
blish a compulsory program
of wage and price controls.
As I arrived at the tournae
ment, I copld sense it was
going to be tough. 80% ofﬁe

Mun Attacks Coed On Campus;

February 12, 1971

participants wore dark green
or navy blue suits, and the
symbol of the true debaters:
WINGTIPSI A quick glance at
the list of schools present,
New York University, Mr?
mouth, along with Wayne St-
ate (Neb.), Stout Smte,_ and
Northeast Missouri State pr-
oved we (Phil and I) had a 50‘

' 50 chance of winning, depend-

ing on the teams we would
meet. Naturally we had the
expected Grinnell Socialist
Plan of wage and price cont
trol, which worked equally
well on both the affirmative
and the negative sides. The
reason for this was net only
that our plan was ingenious,
but also that we lacked the
time to develop both sides of
the question. Therefore, the
logiml deduction was made:

latest In Series Of Muggings

For at least the third time
this school year, a Grinnell
College coed has been attack-
ed on campus. The latest alts
ack occurred last Sunday ni-
ght between 8:30 and 9 p.m.
as the coed was walking be-
tween the Women's Gym and
the Science Building.

Grinnell Police Chief Peters
described the assailant as
5‘7" to 5'8", 28 to 30 years
old, wearing short black hair
combed back straight. Peters
said, “He wore gray work cl»
othes and was a little heavy
in the gut."

Peters said that this desc-
ription generally matches that
given by previous victims.

In this most recent attack,
the girl's arms were pinned
to her sides, her mouth was
covered, and she was thrown
to the ground. Assistant Dean
of Students Ric MacDowell,
describing the nature of the
various attacks, said,

"This guy will sort of walk
up beside the girl and make
highly
There hasn't really been any

suggestive remarks. '

overt sex.”

Peters, however, warns that
"He's not up there for nothr
ing.” Although he is trying to
identify the assailant through
photographs, Peters reports
no positive results thus far.

Peters noticed that the at-
tacker, wearing only work C].
othes, was not dressed for the
.10 degree weather of last
Sunday night. He postulated
that “Either he lives near-
by, or he had a car." Pet‘
ers is of the opinion that the
attacker may nor be from the
town of Grinnell.

MacDowell strongly urges
that "If anything like this
does happen to somebody, she
should immediately contact
her RA, myself, and the pole
ice.” Peters said that the
best thing a girl can do, if
attacked, is ”really let outa
bellow." He also suggested
that “You college kids up
there keep an eye on these
complete strangers."

Peters said repeatedly that
the attacks have been limits
ed to the campus; he reports
no similar incidents in town.

GRINNE LL, IOWA 50112

"it is better to have one case
than no case at all.” In any
case, We proceeded to our
first round on the affirmative
side against the University of
Missouri.

The first round went, and so
did we. The second round
also proved to be a fluke.
I knew we had lost bccause
l) the judge was a middle7
aged woman; 2) she had the
look of the silent majority
on her face; a) she probably
had a husband who was a cor-
porate manager for GE (which
does not blend well with a so-
cialist society). After thesec—
and round, the University of
Iowa provided a Sherry Hour.
(Sherry for those 21 and over
and coke to those under age.)
I proceeded to sample each
type of sherry(which Mrs. Rye
an, Nick's wife, our beauti-
ful caretaker, frowned upon).
None the less, Iwas very lube
ricated, as was the judge, in
our next round.

(continued to page 2)

by Timothy Purges
and Misther Dooley

Apres midi le deluge
"Deacon Mushrat
"We owe it to theprofession"
--lrwin Goldberg

President Leggett rang the
curtain up on this last Mons
day’s meeting of the faculty
senate with a report on the
current status of the ACM
which is, by the common con-
sensus of its members, too
expensive to continue its fin-
ancial policies of the Status
Quo Ante Recession. The
number of offroampus pro~
grams is _to be cut to ten (at
least, according to the self-
recommendations of the Dir—
ectors), with five to be man
aged out of a trimmed-down
Chicago office, and five to be
run by the colleges "most

appropriate to each".
We were then treated to Yet

Another Overview of the cole
lege's current financial
status.

Six years ago, when this
country still enjoyed a War
time Economy, itwaspossible
for this college to balance its
budget with $250,000 in unn
restricted gifts and have some
left over [0 put in the sock.
On the plus side, in 1965-1968,
was an unprecedented rise in
unrestricted income.

01 the minus side were the
imperative renovations and
restorations of Steiner Hall,
the Heating Plant, the Swim—
ming Pool, the Book Store,

A.R.H. and various firetrap
dormitories on South Campus.
It was thought that,withinter-
est rates fairly low, the col-
lege's income could meet both
the operations budget and the
plant fund budget, with a safe
cushion of calculated indebt-
edness. Also in the planning
stage at the time were a new
Central Dining Facility, anew
Coed Dormitory (remember
that one?), and a new Physical
Education Complex.

Due to increased financial
pressures and the complete
indecipherability of student
opinion, the first two went the
Way of All Good Ideas. But
suddenly, a huge sum of fed-
eral money appeared on the
horizon (to the east), and the
college signed up to buya free
gym.

It seemed reasonable, in
1968, to expect that the col-
lege could bring enough in
in gifts to pay off the 1 1/2
million building fund debt and
keep up the operations budget.
Such would indeed have been
the case, had the operating
budget stayed at the 1965 le-
vel. But the economy went all
to hell, operations ate all the
available money, and we are
rived where we are today.

NOW, Leggett does not fore-
see the necessity of cutting
whole programs, partly be-
muse it is hoped that across*
the-board trimming will suf~
fice, partly because Priorit-
ies have not yet been deter—

(continued to page 2)

loewi Decides That Grinnell

Will Not Join loos Strikers

Wednesday morning Grinnell
students were notified of pro-
posed campus political action
which they were not to share.
The Student Youth Conference
for a People's Treaty had
tailed for a national student
strike on February 10th, pro-
testing U.S. invasion of Laos.
Marches were scheduled in
large cities all over the na—
tion as well.

The strike action was en-
dorsed by the NSA, but Grins
nell withdrew from that or-
ganization some time ago (for
non-political reasons). Andy
Loewi felt that ”not many
colleges will participate in the
strike - , it will take till spring
for the sentiment to grow.”
In Iowa, Ames helda convoca-
tion, but no strike; Iowa City
struck and organized work-

i l . - . .
LE. MAINER and his Crazy Mountaineers provided the entertainment Saturday night for

a large group of enthusiastic students. J.E., a bluegrass stylist, has toured the south for
years. (Phato by Barry Zigas)

shops and a teachtin; Drake
planned no action.

Loewi‘s decision not to str-
ike was arbitrary, as no one
had come to him endorsing
the idea, He felt that "acti-
vities interrupting the edu—
(rational process are not an
effective form of protest."
Instead, Grinneilians will hit
Washington with protest by
means of a telegram mm,
paig'n.

Aside from the telegram sent
by Loewi to Nixon asking for
immediate withdrawal, stud-
ents'were given the opportun-
ity to send public opinion ten
legrams to Congressmen, Se~
nators, or the President. Fur-
ther action will doubtless be
organized for the spring, when
Peaceniks can march in come
fort.

 

