Frosty Discusses KGRN

by Lynne Ogawa

In the boxing world, to knock
someone out is to "chill 'em."
Apparently, Mr. Forest Mit—
chell had the ability to ”chill
'em” good, for a sportswriter
soon tagged him with thenick
name “Frosty".

Now owner~ manager ofGrin-
nell's KGRN, Frosty Mite
chell's days as a GoldenGlove
boxer at Drake Universityare
long over. But his nickname
and interest in sports still re-
main. Mr. Mitchell, together
with Coach Edd Bowers,
broadmst “The Monday
Morning Quarterback" from
8:10‘9200 weekly.

In addition, Mr. Mitchell ori-
ginates the University of Iowa
games for the Iowa Sports
Network. In 1967 and 1969,
he was named Iowa's Sports
caster of the year.

KDIC Role

In his capacity as station
owneremanager, Mr. Mitchell
commented on the' role of
KGRN at the college: "We
feel that the college having
their own FM radio station
has a better chance to satisfy
the intellectual typeprogramr
ing. They can do a much bet-
ter job edumtionally where
our own program, by neces-
sity has to be more commer-
cial.”

However, the station does
maintain contact with the col-
lege. It hires a student year»
ly and also participates in the
spring intern program.

This year's employee is Glen
Peiffer. He will begin working
in the near future, handling
some of the weekend pres
grams.

From a citizen's point of
view, M . Mitchell is "ime
‘p’ré'e'sed'with‘the‘accompl‘ish-
merits of the college and‘the
students. "I often don’tagree
with student oradministration
decisions, but I would find it
very boring if I did."

Mr. Mitchell is a native Io-
wan who has lived in Grinnell
slnce'1959. Originally from
Des Moines. he graduated
from Drake Universityin1955
with a major in journalism
and public relations.

His first taste of radio work
mme while he was at Drake.
He needed a job to work his
way through college. When a
position opened at 3 Des Moir
nes radio station, he audi-
tioned for it and was hired.

Romance

From there, Mr. Mitchell
says he "fell in love" with
the radio business and "the
romance is still going on."

Diring 1955 to 1959, he work»
ed for several radio stations
in Iowa and Qiiwgo,

His wife’s pregnancypromp-
ted the move to Grinnell. Mr.
Mitchell said he does not like
urban society with all its pro—
blems and does not think it is
the proper place to raise a
family. ”You can make the boy
off the farm, butyou can'ttake
the ﬁrm off the boy,"saidhe.

When asked why he chose
Grinnell over other towns,Mr.
Mitchell came forth with an
unusual reason. His contract

Frosty Mitchell

with KIOA, Des Moines, Sli‘
pulated he could not work
within a 50 mile radius of the
city for ten years. Grinnell
happened to be 51 miles away.
So, he formed the Mitchell
Broadcasting Company and
bought KGRN.

Actually, Mr. Mitchelladded,
he liked Grinnell because it
was a small community witha

IEAP Hopes To Help Keep In

by Bill Knecht

Long-ranged experiments
aimed at reducing the Col-
leges consumption of heating
fuels are now being conducted
by the Heat and Energy group
of LEAP.

Based on previous LEAP ex~
perimentation, the group
hopes to empirically demon-
strate the possibility of re*
ducing steam consumption in
the individual dormitories
without significantly altering
the present level of comfort.
This could involve a sizable
reduction in the College’s con-
sumption of gas and fuel oil,
with their consequent pollu-
tion and depletion of these
resources.

The experiment is being con-
ducted in several dormitories
on North Campus. It involves
resetting the Weatherstat cons
trols on the outsides of sev-
eral halls, while leaving the
rest as they are. The Wea-
therstat is an outdoor ther-
mosmt which controls the flow
of steam into a building ac-
cording to outside conditions
of air temperature, wind ve
locity and humidity.

A problem with the Weather»
stat is that it often fails to
account for buildings’ abili-
ties to retain heat. Thus,when
the outside temperature falls
suddenly, as it does frequent-
ly in the spring and fall, the
Weatl‘ :stat may admit more
hear no the building, even
the the building may be
or g down very slowly and
consequently still be warm. At
such times, students may have
to open windows and doors to
keep the temperature down in
their rooms.

Right now, Weatherstats let
steam flow when the outside
temperature drops to 63 der
grees. LEAP has found that
this can be lowered to 53 der
grees without significantlyale
tering the inside temperature

FOR LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES, YOU CAN’T BEAT

DANISH MAID.

DANISH MAID BAKERY

818 Fourth Avenue

SCARLET AND BLACK OCTOBER 1.1971

college, a "cosmopolitan
complex." Theatmosphere for
raising a family is “just [are
rific."

Smiling and commenting,
"Grinnell College will prO"
bably hate me," Mr. Mitchell
said the motivation for start
ing his own company was the
“capitalistic urge."

In addition, ho had definite
ideas on radio thathadn’tbeen
tried on a small market. He
wanted to introduce a conglt)’
mcrate format that satisfied
the Various segments of the
community.

He indicated the format is
”quite successful" in Griir
nelll The fact that “we have
not been afraid to delve into
controversial items" also
contributes to the station‘s
success, he noted.

Besides KGRN, Mr. Mitchell
operates a station in Mount
Pleasant. He also includes
fishing, politics, golf, governs
ment and civic projects in his
schedule.

But his main recreation oc-
cupies by far most of his
time. “Myworkismyhobby.”

of the building.

This presents some prof
blems, of course. With win-
dows and doors closed more
of the time, air has little
chanceto circulate and soon
becomes stale. Whether or
not this will amount to a ser-
ious problem remains to be
seen.

Previous experiments pro-
duced poor or incomplete re-
sults due to an original mis—
understanding of the nature of
Weatherstat. It was originally
thought that setting the Wea~
therstat 5 degrees lower would
drop the temperature inside
the dorm by 5 degrees. HowV
ever, when an experimentwas
conducted last winter, terns
peratures were so low thatthe
heat was on almost all the
time. Asit turned out, to main—
tain even a.5 degree lower
temperature, heat had to we
supplied almost continuous v.
Thus, almost the same amount
of heat had to be supplied in
either case and the experir
ment failed to show any large
difference in heat consumption

Wan/m (it flat

Weather at Its
Cultural Best

by Harlan Smith

It is obvious that the weather
plays an important part in the
fine arts. Here are a few ex-
amples:

If Leonardo .Da Vinco had
painted "Mona Lisa" duringa
snowstorm, everyone today
would have insisted that she
use Head and Shoulders sham-
pool

If during the opera in Miami,
a violent hurricane erupted, it
would force Mary Costa mess
cape from a high sea.

And a case did happen where
during a storm, the wind blew
down the screen ofa Drive-in
movie. The movie that was
showing was, ofcourse, “Gone
With the Wind."

Now for the vice versa(vicc,
as you know, is not limited by
the weather; only by the price).

Southurd’s Low
The next time you go to a
Francesco Trio Concert, res
gardless whether the sky is
clear or not, take an umbrella
or rain gear of some kind.

The Steam

between the two temperature
settings.

This latest experiment will
feature a 10 degree change in
the Weatherstat settings. This
may lower the inside tempera—
tures by a few degrees,but the
change will hopefully be come
pensated for by the students
who close their windows.
LEAP is looking for a way to
monitor the amount of steam
coming into the buildings with
lower Weatherstat settings.
If this can be done, empirical
comparisons can be made on
relative steaml consumption
between buildings with the 63
degree setting and ones with
the 53 degree setting. If the
quality of the air inside build-
ings with the lower setting
turns out to be acceptable to
students, and if steam con-
sumption drops considerably
in these halls, LEAPmaywcll
be on the way to lowering the
College's fuel bill and the a-
mount of pollution from the
heating plant, not to mention
conserving alreadye dwindling
fuel resources.

 

POYHTER’S

FOURTH AVENUE MSHIOHS

(Mﬁmﬁc Panty Hose
and Hosiery

ANNUAL SALE
September 27 - October 11

 

BATTEY TEXACO

WINTER CHECK LIST:
‘ Lubrication
" Tune Up
‘ Cooling System
' Tires
" Jug
PICKUP AND DELIVERY
Sixth 31 West 23675122

 

Soulhurd’s low Revealed

Weather obeys few rules,
but ”Southord’s Law of Free
dictablc Precipitation Per-
iods" is on which applies.
Taken from the comic bookI
was reading and copied before
I used the tissue paper to
relieve my nose, is this law
which states” ”Qilture has a
drastic effect upon weather;
in the area of Chamber music
specifically. A date in which
the Francesco Trio performs
on the college (Grinnell)cam-
pus proper, within 24 hours of
said performance precipitae
tion will rain down upon the
heads of the Israelites and
ﬂiey shall be freed of their
bondage and be led....."

Ruin Dance

The law gets a little out of
hand and must be broken
sometimes. The lawmakers
get out of hand and must.....
Applying the law directly to
this year, we find that for
the only two concerts of the
Trio it has rained twice, the
first time breaking an eight
week drought-~which explains
the situation the day before
when David Abel was hopping
up and down on Central Cam-
pus in matching loincloth and
mocwsins.

The second concert phenom-
enon is also interesting be—
cause a few biology students
studying all night long(super~
vised, of course) noticeda
gradual clearing of conditions
immediately following the
Trio's performance.

Stranded

Upperclassmen willremem—
her two years ago during one
of the first Trioconcerts here
that the sky was clear at 8:00
p.m. and by 10:00 p.m. one of
the heaviest rains of lhatyear
drenched many of the spectar
tors and stranded many more
in the Fine Arts Building for
over an hour.

For further information,ple‘
ase contact: Francesco Trio,
Fine Arts Building, Grinnell
College, Grinnell, Iowa 50112.
Water witehing free with pure
chase of lessons.

for all your
typewriter and

stationery supplies

GRIHHEII
OFFICE sumv

GRINNELL, IOWA
Across from the Post Office

 

 

938 Main

3 Levers 0F SHOPS’

ladies and Children’s Wear
Home Furnishings - Gift Ware

 

 

 

