 

The Grinnell
Scarlet and Black

Budget Approved By Joint Board
Alter Hassle Over Radio Station Funds

photo by Lance ISL-ll

Finance Committee chairman George Sliybut, after referring
to his budget notes, appears to have decided that the whole
Joint Board meeting is a little boring.

Women To Probe, Re-Evaluate
Female Position In Education

Eight women connected with
Grinnell, ranging in posrtion
from professor to student,
talked today for the second
time with President Glenn
Leggett to discuss the educa-
tion of women at Grinnell.

At a luncheon lasl Friday,
Shelley Floyd, Kathy Guroff,
Kay Jordan, Beth Noble, Beat
trice Wall, and Mary Gae
Wyly, and Bonnie Hampton
agreed to carry on a "cone
tinuing discussion” during the
year to try and focus on what
Grinnell offers and lacks in
women’s education,

Some of the topics brought up
at the luncheon were the wot
man's place at Grinnell, lack
of job counseling, the small
percentage of women profes-
sors and instructors, and the
attitude of men towards wot
men’s education.

President Leggett, who oriz
ginally asked the women to
meet, stated "I’m not going
to tell the women what to dis
cuss. That‘s been one oftheir
problems -- male domino»
tion."

The women have already den
cided that a lot of data is
needed concerning what past
female graduates have done
with their degrees. They also
want to find out what jobs
alumnae have secured as well

as what higher
they’ve acquired.
The women are concerned
too with theprcsent-day Grins
tiell education, asking ques*
tions like: What are the ex
pectations women have for
their education here7 Is it
suited fortoday's woman?
Maybe the only change that is
needed is the re-ediication of
men's attitudes.

education

Student Influence?

School Board

William Waddell and Howard
Warner were elected to posi—
tions on the Grinnell Newburg
Community School District
Board in last Monday‘s elt
ection. Helen Hargrave was
rG’GlCCKCd upopposed to the
position of school district tr»
easurer.

Wadel won the Area IV seat,
defeating Kenneth Keenan bya
mere eighteen votes, 721- 703.
Warner outpolled Harold Me
Cullouch 7457696 In Winnng
his Area I seat.

Hargrave received
votes.

A number of students voted
in the election; since it was
so close, their votes may have
determined the outcome. The

127l

Review Minority Hiring Here

On September 9, President
Glenn Leggett issued a letter
creating an 11 member Com~
mmittee on Affirmative Ace
tion for Equal Opportunity,
naming Mr. Charles Seller
to head it.

In a six-part report (Pros
pared February 1,1971) which
accompanied Leggctt's armour
ncement, the history of equal
opportunity at Grinncll is re
counted and a timetable for
needed action is set forth.

Part One of the report deals
with Student Admissions and
Enrollment. It notes that the
first black student graduated
from Grinnell College in 1871
and that today thcrc are 54
black students enrolled at the
college. \n intensive recruit-
ment campaign is underway to
increase this figure. \ total
of $690,000.00 (of which
$140,000.00 comes directly
from college funds andtlie rct

mainder from Rockefeller Fo-
untla1i0n Grants made in 1964
and 1967) has been expended
to date in efforts to recruit
and enroll black students. An
additional $3U,UUU.UU,frOm the
Martin Luther King Scholar-
ship Fund cslablislicdby black
students following Dr. King‘s
assasination, is used to case
the financial burden on black
students attending Grinncll.
The report also notes efforts
being made to recruit meme
bers of other minority races
for the College. These efforts
have mctwith limited success;
there are presently 2 Ameri*
can Indian, 8 Oriental Amerit
can, and 3 MeXican i\l'i’ierloan
students enrolled at the C017
loge,

“Although it is still not cone
vineingly manifested in actual
practice, it is the policy of

See MINORITIES Page 6

by Don Dagcnais

It took two hours and 38
minutes, but last Monday
ntglit the joint Board final-
ly approved the SGAbudgct
proposal for the first scin-
esterl Georgc Shybut & Co.’s
proposed budget came out
pretty well, the only real cht
ange being an increase in the
salary of the SGA secretary.
‘\diSPlI[C about the level of
funding for the campus radio
station resulted in that part
of the budget being frozen
for further review, but her
thing has as yet been changed
in that area.

The meeting began at 8:00
P.M. and was attended by as
bout forty student spectators
along with such norables as
Jim Tcderman, Marge Daley,
Shybul and his army of local
financial wizards, 60% of the
salaried radio staff, former
Student Coordinator Greer'
aiiicar, '\uditor Greg Thielt
mann, and others. With that
cast, this was obviouslywhere
it was at.

The Finance Committee's
budgetary "philosophy" this
year is that student moneys
should be used to maximize
direct services to most stu—

Election Close

S a B talked to a number of
student voters, and all ofthcin
apparently voted for the
winners.

Voting in Precinct lwnslieat
vily iii favor of the winning
candidates. Keenan and MC
Cullouch outpollcd the winners
in Precinct II.

Warner is a safety cnginct
cring department managerfor
nelna Casualty Company of
Des Moincs. \Vaddt-Il is a
division manager of the Ge—
neral Telephone and Elecr
tronics Data Services.

dents and not to subsidize
small interest groups. chor-
dingly, the Committee‘s proV
posal included a large incr‘
ease in funda to the Social
Coordinating Committee, tare
ger budgets for the 5&8 and
KDIC, greatly increased hall
funds, and reductions in salt
ary levels of SGA officers.

Varied Pace

Things started of pretty
smoothly as the Social Coors
dinating Budget was approved
in eight minutes, butthe meet~
ing slowed to a crawl when a
50'minute debate developed
over the allocation of funda to
the radio station. The pretag—
onist was Andy Brill, who ob-
jected during the course of
the debate to the general let
vol of funding for KDIC, the
level of KDIC salaries, the
philosophy of having any salt
aried studenttfilled positions
on campus at all, and the lack
of inventory of radio equipz
mentrrin that order.

Sparks!

Station Manager Clay Lee
explained the rationale behind
station salaries and defended
the level of funding for the
station as a whole, generally
concluding thatthe placewould
not rtin if people werenotpaid
to do it (the jobs being less
than full of glory) and “we de-
serve our salaries!"

Chief Engineer Bob Sparks
joined the fray with a few
verbal specifics aboutthe me-
niality of his work, and within
a few moments the meeting had
erupted into a shouting argu
erupted into a shouting argu-
ment between Sparks and
Brill.

The argument soon turned
into a debate on the philosophy
behind all campus student sal-
aries. The question, said Bro
ill, was "whether or not any*
body would do thescjobs with

Mike Slcgcl reports
oti and cva luates the
positions of Iowa
Congressman John
Culver, as given in
an interview with
the 5&1} last Fri-
day. Page 7.

The 5&8 interviews Gary, In-
diana businessman and civiclea-
der Randall c. Morgan, Sr., who
was on campus last weekend to
meet with the faculty executive
council and propose newways for
the college to recruit black fa-
culty, staff, and students, Page 3.

Friday
September 17, 19/71

Volume 80 Number 4

out salaries. We could argue
about it forever." The reason
we have salaries at all, he
claimed, was because of the
“long tradition" of salaries
on this campus. Nothing was
ever settled on any of these
points.

His proposal to freeze the
radio station budget until a
later date failed for lack of
a second, but Phil SasichproV
posed an amendment requir—
ing that those parts of the
station budget which are not
necessary for operation of
the station (viz., salaries)
should be frozen until a come
piete equipment inventory and
a rationale for the level of
station salaries can be prer

sented to the Joint Board.
The amendment passed.

The Hall Fund and the Ini~
tiative Fund section of the
budget was approvcdwithreaz
sonable speed after a short
debate on the nature of Ini-
tiative Fund guidelines this
year. The Initiative Fund mo-
neys will be available for
”parties and other cultural
events" (as one hall Presi—
dent put it!), whereas Hall
funds should be used for spot
cifieally hall activities.

Not Enough

Ed DeEus argued that the
Initiative Fund should also be
available to the halls in use
their funds run out, primariz
ly because his hall has alrea-
dy spent over half their semt
ester‘s allotment. The final
compromise was that Initiar
tive Funds will not be avail-
able to halls unless it is
late in the semester and not
enough ”cultural events" are
happening to eat up the dol-
lars.

Loren Hart, who hada ves-
ted interest in the whole pro~
ceedings because he is not
only Read Hall President but
also a member of the Finance
Committee and the Assistant
Student Auditor, breathed a
great sigh of relief when the
Auditor’s budgetwasapproved
in a record 54 seconds.

The final budget to be ap-
proved was that of the SGA,
accounts themselves. Here a-
gain the salaries were the
biggest question, as student
Carolyn Ashbaughimmcdiate»
1y proposed that SGA salaries
be raised because of the "gr-
eat Job the cabinet officers
do."

The Finance Committee
recommended that all 5 cabin
net officers be given a $300
salary for the year, but Phil
Sasich proposed raising the
SGA President's salary to $
400. With that, the whole gang
was off on another debate a~
bout salries.

See BUDGET Page 6

EPC Election Results

In a runtoff Thursday Chris
Freeburg was elected At Large
Student Member of the All
‘College EPC. One name was
missing from the ballot when
the first election was held
Tuesday.

 

