Washinglon
Correspondence:

This is the first of two artir
cles which will explore ”The
Republican Party: Right and
Left." This week's column
offers the sentiments ofBarry
Goldwater; it is based on his
past pronouncements and his
responses to questions during
a recent visit to the American
University campus.

Goldwater's conservative
outlook was much in evidence
as he blasted big labor and
deficit spending during his
campus appearance. Hewarn
had of “the makings ofanother
1929 crash in the US if the
government continues heavy
deficit spending. ”

But the Senator, recognizing
how critical the economicsit»
uation has become, lent his
own voice in support of Nixon
and his new program. “It
is important for us to choke
back any inclination to be
critical and negative and ob
structive. It is time for CO.
operation -- full-hearted, en-
thusiastic, helpful cooperation
with the President of the Uni-
ted States in his attempt to
put this country once again on
the high road to materialabun-
dance and spiritual plentir
rude."

Speaking directly to the eco~
nomic problems which the
country is facing today, Cold-
water expressed his concern
over the new turn in President
Nixon's economic policies.
“There are certainly things
which the Nixon Administra-
tion is doing which violate my
basic concept of conservative
government. For example
wage and price controls, even
of a temporary nature, have
always been repugnant to me
in the past."

"I can tell you flatly
that this country was on a
collision'cour'se with disaster
prior to President Nixon's
message of August 15th. At
long last the chickens had
come home to roost. The hen
house which was built out of
extravagance and economic
heresy of prolonged liberal
Democratic rule was full to
overflowing.”

In terms

Present Siudenl
EPC Members

To the Editors:

The election of the student
memberratslarge,ChrisFreen
burg, to the All College EPC
was one which drew encouragr
ing interest and participation
from the student body. Unfor-
tunately, however, it has
somewhat overshadowed the
selection of the other students
on the committee. During the
past few weeks, students in
CBS, the Social Studies DiV’
ision, the Science Division,
and the Humanities Division
have chosen as their respccn
tive representatives Duane
Taylor, Steve Korstad, Marin
lyn Mulligan and Marlee
Luers. Each studentwillhave
equal voting power. lhope that
students will direct their sug—
gestions and ideas to lhese
people, as well as to Chrisand
myself.

Shelley Floyd

ramifications which may be
affected by the new economic
initiatives, Golo‘waterhas star
ted his belief that “ bids
fair to reestablish very quick'
ly America's status as the
number one economicpower in
the world. And this is ex-
tremely important. It is imn
portant to our safety. It is
important to the safety of the
free world. And it must be
established if this nation is
ever to overcome the lead
which the Soviet Union has
recently achieved in strategic
military power."

His response to the ”loudbut
unqualified critics of Ameri-
can military operations and
strategic interests” is that
"the security of 204,000,000
Americans is not negotiable,
nor is it a matter of debate.
It is an abject necessity res
gardless of what problems
happen to plague us on the
domestic front."

In reference to the domestic
front, Senator Goldwater has
articulated a concept of a
"welfare frankenstein". ”You
would think for the huge out-
lays which we have made in
the past and are making today
that our social welfare pro
gram would show some tan~
gible and measurable results.
You would have thought that
with outlays for education and
income maintenance...that as
a nation we might have come
closer to the goal of insuring
the domestic tranquility, pro»
viding for the common defense

, ’51 ﬁll/((1% .
' by Elliott Lewis

Goldwater: The Republican Right

and for promoting the general
welfare. But this is not the
case. Instead crime, lawless-
ness, delinquency, and almost
every kind of social ill, new
and old, have been multiply-
ing at a frightening rate,“
Goldwater has also expre
sed disappointment ina simir
lar manner with the educa-
tional system. "You would
think that an educational sys-
tem such as ours might re~
flect the fact thatfivetimesas
much money is beingallooated
to it each year than was the
case 20 years ago. But this
certainly is not the case. In-
stead of promoting the cause
of reason and tranquility and
wisdom, our educational in-
stitutions have become the
spawning ground and often the
muse of civilian strife and
contempt of law. Iventure to
say that our educational inn
stitutions now rank lower in
the respect andaffection ofthe
American people than they
have at any other time."
Thus Senator Goldwater of~
fers the conclusions that "...
no amount of tampering with
the defense budget will fix
this problem. Again, we have
to look to the area wheremost
of our money is going and find
out what we can do about it...
it strikes methat the realdann
ger to the United Statesatthis
time stems, not from the so-
caIled ‘warfare state’, but
from the social welfare junga
le which is threatening to
choke us to death."

Praises Trio’s Togetherness

The Francesco Trio, Grins
nell's performing artists in
residence, gave their second
concert in ‘a‘se'mest‘er serie‘s‘
last Saturday evening in Rob-
erts Theater. A large gathers
ing of both Grinnell students
and members of the surround-
ing community were on hand to
enjoy pianist Nathan Schwartz,
cellist Bonnie Hampton, and
violinist David Able perform
a program of musicbyPergo-
leski, Strawinisky, Sheinfeld
a'lﬁeﬂﬁfi‘éﬁlz‘g Trio by Pergo-
leski, theSonata inE» Flatmar
jor was a relatively smooth
and well assembled work with
much emphasis on dynamics.
Of the three movements un-
doubtably the most exciting
was the last'ﬂhE Allegro 1:“.
gato. The remarkable ensem-
blage of players never once
ﬁltered in the onslaught of
rapid fingerings and bowing.

Strawinskys "Suite ltalir

is a fine pianorcello
duet in five majormovements.
My favorites were the flOW’
ing Aria and melodious Tara
antella. Errors were kept to
an abolute minimum as the
husband and wife team execu'
ted the piece with skill and
feeling.

The major disappointment of
the evening was the major
work performed.

Shienfeld’s “Memories of
Yesterday and Tomorrow"
was premiered by the Fran-
cesco Trio in March in San
Francisco. The work was

5 & B RADIO SHOW

Listen to the S St B"News-
room of the Air" radio
show Sunday at 7:00. This
will be our regularlysche-
duled time slot from now
on.

commissioned by both the Trio
and The San Francisco cham—
ber.Music Society. It ,iucor‘
porates the use of electric
violin, electrified cello, and a
prepared piano geared to give
a percussive effect.

The piece was to have inter-
mingled excerpts of estab-
lished works with modern cont
cepts of musical composition,
a la 1971.

”Memories," is what is typ*
ically considered to beavante-
garde. The same type compo-
sition [has been in existence
for a number of years includ-
ing the stereotyped uses of
dissonances, glissandos (qua-
rter tones, maybe?) and stran
nge noises in general out of
the classification of what I
would call listenable music.
Such music has, however, be-
come popular in horror mow
ies and is easily recognizable
as such.

A great deal of manucvering
was required of Mr. Abel and
Mr. Schwartz from instrument
to instrument along with two
frantic page tumers who pron
ved their sightsreading skills
along with the players.

The musicianship involved in
playing a work of this type is
extremely difficultand the trio
should be praised for what is
normally considered their
sense of togetherness.

After a short intermission,
the Trio returned with a more
traditional (redeeming?) Era~
hms piece, "Trio in CMajor"
Opus 87. This beautiful and
romantimllyrtcolorful masn
terpiece could not have re
ceived a better interpretation
with Schwartz doing a fine job
on difficult passages.

The trio is better than very
good and appears to he imn
proving with age-~however,
while not staying away from
the new and different they
should veer away from com-
mercial and unorlginal works
unworthy of their musicianr
ship.

by Ron Mcdvin a‘\

"You may say I‘ma droamer/

But I’m the only one/I hope
someday you'll join us/And the
world will be as one." The
words are from “Imagine,"
John Lennon‘s title cut from
his new album. This album is
markedly different from his
first; a deep look into John
himself. The music on this
album is considerably lights
er- -and better- . than the first.
But the listener is awarefrom
the very beginning that he is
listening to the new John Len-
non; that the Beatle John Lane
non is gone for good.

The first cut, “Imagine" isa
beautiful song with John play-
ing excellentpiano.The songis
soft and peaceful,and itstands
as one of the album's best
songs. But the lyrics are a
problem, as they are on the
entire album. John Lennon as
the Beatle had superb lyrics;
he was a master of the Eng-
llsh language. “I Am the Wal-
rus" was one example of his
ability to play with words and
the sounds of words. On this
album, John is far too ser-
ious.

The idealism of ”Imagine"
is the kind that we've all been
hearing for years. It's nice,
but so very trite. John seems
to be trying too hard. He cone
stantly is saying, “the world’s
fucked up, so runaway and join
Yoko and me ’cause we've gor
the anstver;" :’ ‘ . '

"Crippled Inside' is a bril-
liant' country song, and John
sounds exactly like John Sen
bastian. In fact, if I didn't
know better, [would bet good
money that Sebastian wrote
this song. (I‘dloso, ofcourse.)
But the lyrics push too hard
again. They do not fit the mu-
sic. While the song is a joyful
piece, the lyrics speak of not
being able to hide, “when
you’re crippled inside.”

"Jealous Guy" is another
beautiful song, lyrics inn
eluded. It is another soft song
with a pleasant piano accom-
paniment. Phil Spector, the
producer, does not cover the
beauty of the songwith strings
or the London Orchestra, as
he‘s known to do; this song is
also in contention for the ale
bum’s best.

The last two songs on the
first side are hr below aver-
age. "It's So Hard" is a typ-
ical slow blues number which
reaches the top ofthe boredom
level after the first verse.
And “I Don’t Wanna be a Sol-
dier Mama I don'tWanna Die"
is some incredibly mOnlJtO’
nous hard rockwithextremely
trite lyrics. This song is def
initely one to miss.

Side Two starts with "Gimme
Some Truth", another hard-
driving song, where John is
sick of everything from “up

The Grinnell
Scarlet and Black

Grinncllcollmr Grimnllwan some

Associate Editors
it, m.

(not raw

Copy Stall D-
u. ow”.

Layout rainy

Layout Slcll
(Minnow? ‘ ‘ “

Sports mm
in,“ rm. um, um...

SCARLET AND BLACK

Mill

//

at."

tight . shortsighted - narrow
minded-hypocrites" to “Sc-
hlzophrenicregocent 'c-paran
noic»prima-donnas," John
may have been the Walrus,but
he certainly is not God, and
listening to him preach and
rant is just plain annoying.
When someone like Dylan wri-
tes such songs, theyare beau-
tiful and sincere; Lennon's
attempts are noisy and taste
less.

But Lennon redeems himself
in the next song, the third nom‘
ination for the best in the al-
bum. This is "Oh My Love",
a hauntingly enchanting song.
By this time the listener is
aware that John succeeds far
better with his soft songs.
The lyrics are also nice. ”I
feel sorrow, oh Ifeeldreams/
Everything is clear in my
heart/I feel life, oh I feel
love/everything is clear in
our world."

“How Do You Sleep" is
shocking and depressing; also
uncalled-for. It‘s a songabout
Paul, and it cuts him to
shreads. Lines such as

“Those freaks was rightwhen
they said you was dead" and

”The sound you make is muzak
to my ears" let the listener
know once and forall LhatJohu
and Paul do not get along too
well at the moment! But I feel
that John serves nopurpose by
trying to destroy Paul--(even
if Pa‘ul DOES'write a lot of
muzakl). We all realize the
Beatle dream is over, but at
least it's nice to pretend that
there’s no hate.

"How?" is amediocrt ballad
which ironically follows the
previous song. There are
chords in this song which
sound amazingly like “The
Long Winding Road.” It’s nice
to cut down Pauland’then sound
like a carbon copy.

"Oh Yoko" (written in 1968)
is the album’s last out and it
is great! This is one that
runs through your headall day
after you hear it once. (Dick
Cavett considered it the best
cut on the album, comparingit
to a Wrigley’s gum jingle.
Does this mean anything?) But
the music is great. It's an ex
tremely light, bouncy, happy
number thatcanbeplayedover
and over without becoming
tired of it. And Johnplays the
harmonica; something which
hasn’t been heard in a long
while. “My love will turn you
on" he sais, and the song
turns on everyone.

As an album, [wouldrecomn
mend ”Imagine". Many of the
songs have weak lyrics, but
the music makes up for the
words. It is not an album to
get excited over, but listenn
ing to John Lennon when he’s
not bitter can be quite an en-
joyable experience.

in mi, H. mm .. m. We new... m
cm...” and. Wm... mu, i... .W ..

m u m, umm mi... mm... n
no.“ . lirmtintandliid

sounder“... Mt .tll.lm~l «in:
Business Manger

Clrwlﬂllon Manager

t... m. m
men.”
an mat m, nwu, x... him, i u...“ nut,
.ulWmnmsum. i «mm»
., st» 1.... .t in...

mi. um m.- \lurvm.
“nun...

Imorrlsing Monogri
w, lulu“

Emlagvlvhtri
n.. in... nu, mum-y mm“..-

OCTOBER 1, 1971

 

