April 30, 1971

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Pnage 5

Grinnell Contingent Marches In Washington

by Ron Medvin

The Idea of actually going to
Washington D.C. for the April
24th rally had not really cr-
ossed my mind until I listen’
ed to Egbal Ahmad speakto the
Grinnell Students. He pleaded
with us, asking that anyone
who could go to do so. He
said that a small showing in
D. C. would convince the Nix-
on administration that the pe-
ace movement was a dyingca-
use. I decided it was time to
hit the big city.

Planning

A bus was arranged to take
us to D.C. but we were quite
short moneywise, and we were
worried that we couldn't get
enough people to come. Only
14 Grinnellians eventually
went, which is a very poor
showing for a school which is
supposed to be ”in the fore-
front of political activity.’
Money was raised in an auc-
tion held on the Thursday be-
fore we left; this helped the
“cause." Also we had about
10 Cornell students and 5
Drake students, so we maria»
ged to raise the right am-
ount for the bus.

We left Grinnell at p P.M.
Friday afternoon loaded with
SAGA oranges, apples, bread,
and juicy peanutbutter. A few
students made sure to let peo
ple know where we weregoing
by putting a sign on the back
of the bus “Grinnell to D.C.”
(This of course lasted about
two minutes before the wind
blew it to bits.)

The ride was long, but eV’
eryone was in good spirits.
(This writer entertained the
dirong with a guimr, playing
such notables as “Gloria"
and ”House of the Rising
Sun.”) The Drake Contingent
to prove their cool, huddled
in the back of the bus smok-
ing grass. We were impress
ed. But actually, one could
understand their reasons, for
passing through Illinois, 1nd-
iana, and Ohio is almost as
exciting as Tuesday night in
Altoona.

Approaching D.C.
Everyone talked about how
many people they expected
to be in D.C. but nobody was
very optimistic. The excite-
ment dimmed as the bus ride
dragged on. However, the ear
citement grew once more when
we stopped in an Ohio Howard
Johnsons. There were three
other buses, all goingto Wash
ington. They were from Chics
ago, and one of the kids said

\
\

Pete Seeget

(Photo by Bob Birnbaum)
that Chicago had 60 buses
going! Then, in our next stop,
in western Pennsylvania at
about four in the morning, fo-
urteen buses were just pulls
ing out as we pulled in. A
girl woke up and for a moms
ent, thought we were in DC.
Then another ten buses drove
in after us! If was incredible.
We met kids from Cleveland,
Youngstown, Kent State, Pitts
sburg; all on their way to
D.C. Howard Johnsons was
overflowing at four in the
morning! (There‘s no way to
comprehend how much good
old HJ's made that night, but
with all_ those buses--not to
mention the cars on their
way--they could open a chain
in Iowa with those profits!)
It was hard to sleep on the
way, so we were all awake
for the fantastic Maryland
sunrise. At six in the morn-
ing, the highway was filled
with cars heading for the city.
We finally pulled in around
seven o’clock. It was still
early, so we were among the
first 50,000 or so arrivals. It
was a beautiful day in Wasir
ington, cool and sunny

The Crowd

After getting off the bus, we
split up and went off on our
own. I went to the Lincoln
Mmeorial for a while and was
tched the people pour into the
city. By 11 o'clock, the ell-
ipse by the White House was
jammed. No one could believe
it. There were far more peo»
ple than anyonehadeven hoped
for. Because of this, things
were really disorganized at
first. When the march to the
Capitol began, there were
masses of people heading fr-
om three directions, trying to
get onto Constitution Avenue.
The marshalls tried to holdus
back to let the organized gr-

oups through first. Itwas gettc
ing a bit tense standingbunchs
ed up in the middle of 200,
000 people, so a few of us
pushed our way to the street
and started marching towards
the Capitol. I found myself
marching with the “High Sch-
ool Women for Peace", closr
ely followed by “Gay Libera-
tion to End the War Now."
( I was quite amazed at how
many college Cay Lib people
were marching; they came fr~
om places such as Florida
and Northwestern University.)
The marshalls kept the march
in control, and everyone set
emed to be in good spirits.
Everyone seemed overjoyed
at the number of people who
came; and there seemed to
be a general feeling to keep
the march peaceful, whichwas
successful. The cops looked
pretty bored as the march
went on and on. There were
the typical chants: “One two
three four, we don’t wantyour
fucking war", and “Peace
NOWl", but generally, the
march was quiet. It seemed
foolish to yell at ourselves,
and the picture of a seventh
grade girl screaming Indian
war whoops was a bit ridicur
lous. Most people were satisr
fied to let their numbers be
seen just by marching.

March Continues

As the march progressed,
there were people everywh-
ere. Hundreds climbed trees
and streetlights, and people
poured into the march from
the sidewalk. Many Officials
in the government buildings
watched the procession from
above, and some marchers
goodsnaturedly waved while
other marchers less good'
naturedly gave them the fin-
ger.

There

signs.

were hundreds of
”Mothers for Peace."

”Texas Contingent , Chit
Now!" “B'nai Brith Woman
for Peace!” 1 had a sign
reading "Yankee Come
Home" and received many
compliments, (making sure to
tell the people that alas, it
wasn’t original.) One man,
wearing a suit and standing
off to the side, also commc
ented on my sign. I found
out a bit later that he was
John Washington, the Mayor
of Washington.

When we got to the Capitol,
the rally area was jammed.
i decided against trying to
push my way up towards the
front. There were just too

ERIK GRAFF, a Grinnell sophomore, passes out apples on the Mall near the Washington
Monument. Erik was one of 14 Grinnellians who chartered a bus for the April 24 demon~

stra tions in Washington.

(Photo by Bob Eirnbaum)

many people. I stood on a
truck and looked back and
I couldn't believe it; there
were thousands upon thousa-
nds of people still marching.
People as far as I could see.
There was no way they could
all get close enough to the
Capitol. A fewambitiousmar-
chers climbed the huge tow
er in front of the Capitol
steps. One sat ‘on the top
waving a large NVA flag.
(There weren't many NVA
flags in sight; the more rat
dical contingents are waiting
for May Day activities be-
ginning on the first.) We be
ard that the police at that
time were estimating a crowd
of over 200,000 which means
that there probably were a
good number more.

The march was pretty well
dominated by the young. But
there were also a good nums
ber of older members; famis
lies, church groups, and otr
hers who came by themsel»
ves, unaffiliated with any gr
oup. There were a surpris-
ing number of unions; they
were often loudly cheered as
they marched by. I talked
to one woman in her 70's. “I
marched here in 1913 for
Woman‘s Sufferage, and 1917
against the War, now I'm here
again but it's really up to
you!" she said. A number
of Vietnam vets were stil'
around, and there was a large
group of Vets from otherwars
marching. Some of the Vets
were missing arms or legs;
they rode in wheelchairs or
walked on crutches. The Viet-
nam Vets are angry; many
are jobless, and they feel
bitter that they fought for a
country whichnow doesn’t give
a damn about them. John
Kerry, 3 Vet, probably made
one most eloquent and ims
passonate speech that Con
gress has ever heard ...he
also spoke at the rally and
received a long ovation from
the crowd.

Afternoon

I walked back to the Wash-
ington Monument later in the
afternoon after the rally and
fell asleep on the grass. Th-
ere were about 25,000 gaths
ered at the Monument; there
was to be a rock concert at
night. I woke up realizing two
things. One: it was freezing
cold all ofa sudden, and with
only a teesshirl i looked for
shelter. Two: I was staring
right into a line of fifty or

(Photo by Bob Birnbaum)

so cops who were attaching
gas masks to their belts!!!
I decided to move away, as
quickly as possible. .A friend
and !, both really cold, ask-
someone if we could sit in
his car, and on getting in,
we found out this man worked
for the Justice Department.
He had a tw0sway radio and
we heard up to the minute
reports of what was going on.
It seems as if the cops were
getting upset because some
of the kids were ripping down
the flags surrounding the Mo-
nument. (They were scared
that this would be seen on Na
tional TV, and this was no
good!) They were getting res
ady to move in, when they
finally got the order to “res
treat." This was no doubt a
wise move, as the Justice Of-
ficial explained to us. There
is no doubt that a riot would
have broken out if the cops
had started with the tear gas
and the clubs. They figured
that it wasn't worth a riot
to save the few flags. So a
major incident wasprevented,
and everything quieted down.
(We heard later, that among
the 400,000 people atthe mar-
ch, there were only eight ar~
rests, and these were all suc
pposedly members of the fas-
cist American Nazi Party.
The whole day was incredibly

‘ peaceful.)

Evening

As night drew on, many mar-
chers headed for home--
(some pickingup the enormous
amount of garbage left on the
grounds and stuffing it into
plastic bags handed out by
ecology s minded marchers.)
The Grinnell group started
back around 7 o'clock, minus
mree Drake students who de-
cided to stay and hitch back
at a later date. There was no
trouble sleeping on the bus
on the way back; we were all
exhausted. (In fact, I missed
completely half of Ohio and
all of Indiana . . .this wasa
blessing!) We made it back to
Grinnell early Sunday. after-
noon, ready to begin all the
work we didn’t do over the
weekend.

Was it worth it? I think so.
No, the war is not going to
end a week from Tuesday. But
this march wasnecessary. We
had to show Nixon, Congress,
and the country that the pr-
essure was still on; that the
MAJORITY of the people in

(continued to page 6)

 

