‘Tlic'si-iirlct to Black, Nov. ltl, mitt—page .l_

° Campus analysts discuss ‘dismaying’ Clark loss

by ltlcirk Fiiikclstciii

Poliiical experts on the Griiinell
campus are still analyzing
Republican Roger Jepsen's sure
prise victory over Democrat Dick
Clerk in Iowa's us. Senate race.

Rob Grey oi the political science
department cites three possible
reasons lor Clark's deteat “Poor
voter turnout traditionally hurts
the Democratic candidate; this
could have had an cliect on the
Senate election. . .Momeiitary
passion on the part of the populus
on the abortion issue and possibly
even a national farm vote revolt
could have harmed Clark‘s

campaign."

GREY EXPIIESSES his per
sonal disappointment by adding.
hallaseriously, . lt lowa can
elect Roger Jepsen as senator, I
don't want to teach in lowa
anymore,"

Political science proiessor Ed
Gilmourc who serves as County
Democratic Party Chairperson,
agrees with Grey's analysis
Gilmour points out that the low
voter turnout at approximately 50
per cent tnationally, the turnout
was about 37 per cent), apathy
among youth and a high turnout ot

the elderly. Jepsen’s use oi the
abortion issue and problems wilh
[he Carter farm policy all led to
Clark's 52 to 43 per cenl loss.

JACK DANE 0F the Crime"
Young Re public ans. who showed
little enthusiasm for the Jepsen
cause, feels that Clark's llOVVOle
deficit in Poweshiek Counly was
due to the “Democrats' inability to
mobilize their voters” and “the
onesissue voters who supported
Jepseli "

Emily Silliman, leader of the 55
Grinnell students who worked for
Clark on Tuesday, emphatically

concludes “1 am very disap-
pointed. I think this sets loivo
politics back 15 years,"

GENERAL (‘AMPUS reactions
to Clark's loss included surprise
and dlsappom|mem “Clark
lost‘l‘l‘l” became a common
question, Remarked one senior, “l
was shocked and dismayed."

Clark’s absence iroin
Washington will hurt the liberal
cause and President Carter Will
lose his most consistent Senate
ally,

Also, Republicans gained control
of both the lowa House andSellale

Governor Ray, threatened by
Democrat .lerome Fitzgerald,
easily retained ottice, and
Republican Terry Branslad
captured the Lieutenant Governor
position.

IN FACT, THE only Democrat
to win state oiiice was Tom Miller,
who ousted Richard Turner as
Attorney General

in Poweshiek County, Mike
Mahalrey, supported strongly by
the Grinnell College Young
Republicans, beat incumbent Don ,
Scllild tor the County Attorney
spot.

annihilm- tantrums-Lounge upsto-rwuwmown Winn?” Iowa tosRestaurantandCoctttailtounqe Upstairs Downinvui thnnell tom JDSRes'auramand Cotklall Lounge tipciairsonr

often
challenged...

/\

 

