WEDNESDAY, MAY 21, 1941
R'egisfral‘ib'n’
Begins Today

Sludenls lo Choose
Entire Year's Course
Under New Program

Registration for the entire next
year has begun today and will be
continued through Friday, May
23, according to Bethana Mc-
Candless, registrar.

The office hours of the faculty
advisers have been posted on the
bulletin boards and every student
is urged to make the necessary
appointments at once, Miss Mc-
Candless said
Changes in Schedule.

The schedule for next year’s
courses has now been completed.
However, a few courses have
been shifted from one group in-
to another, the registrar stated,

Changes to be made are in the
following courses:

Botany c 1-2 has been removed
from group n and wdl meet on
Tuesday and Friday from one to
five in the afternoon. Botany 0
34, in group TV. will have labo-
ratory meetings on Monday and
Thursday instead of Tuesday and
Thursday as previously ans
nounced.

Mathematics B 5 will be offer-ed
the first semester in group v: as
a course covering much of the
work of course B 6 out without
requiring course B 1 as a pre-
requisite. Mathematics B s, to he
given the second semester, will
repeat the same material but will
have course B 1 as a prerequisite.
Philosophy and Sociology.
Philosophy c 9 and c 16 will be
given during the first and second
semesters respectively in group
N.

Sociology c 15, listed in the cata-
logue as c 4, will be given the
fll'st semester in group II; course
B a, listed as B 2. will be given
the second semester in group v;
and course 0 10, in group v11.
will also he offered during the
second semester. Sociology c 3

IF

It’s For Your Room
You’ll Final It At

MITH’

FURNITURE

Undertaking
Across hols: Pontoﬂlm

CORSAGES

For the Coming
Housepar’ties,
For
Commencement
Activities

You Will Find A
Very Large
Selection Here

BATES
FLOWER SHOP

GRINN ELL SCARLET

AND BLACK

0 RECITALISTS O

o . . Charlotte Madson, soprano, and Joan ltuyper,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pianist, nho

will present it joint recital in Herrick Chapel tomorrow night at 7

 

ROTC Unilr May Be lnslalle<l
Nexf Fall On Grinnell Campus

Defense Plans Here
Have Already Grown
To Rumor Proporl’ions

Military defense courses may be
taught under supervision of ser-
vice officers next year, Philip
Lottich, assistant dean of men,
said today. Next fall may also
find an ROTC unit on the Grin-
nell campus. While these plans
are so far only rumored, it is
possible that circumstances may
so change by next fall that these
plans will become definite.

If such a program is initiated
at Grinnell, it will tie in with
the government plans for defense
preparation in colleges through
out the country.

Said Robert P. Patterson, Ase
sistant Secretary of War, in a
speech on “Colleges and Mabili~
zatlon" which was printed in the

and D 1. listed in group I, will
not he given next year,
Rehearsals.

Music rehearsasl scheduled, ac
cording to the registrar. are
Band, 1:00 Tuesday and ﬁlms
day and 4:30 Friday during the
fall; Men's and Women's Glee
clubs 1:00 Tuesday and Thursday;
Grinnell chorus 7:30 p. m. Wed—
nesday; Vesper Choir 9:30 a. m.
Sunday. A Capella Choir 1:00
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday:
and Orchestra 4:30 Monday. Any
student in the college may become
a member of the A Capella Chair
by tryout, Miss McCandless said.

_
It's Just About
Over . . . . .

If you haven’t been
blessed with the taste
of the best food in town

. . . the best service . . .

drop in at the

TEE

Whﬁe<:>5pol

Open 24 Hours Daily

magazine What the Colleges Are
Doing, . . . "The War Department
has no intention of taking over
the country's educational system.
There will be no studeiits' Army
Training Corps, an institution the
memory of which is familiar to
many of you either by association
or by reputation . . . . It is not
the purpose of the war Depart
ment to substitute the camp for
the campus."

"The Reserve Ofﬁcers' Training
Corps plan, however, is working
smoothly and effectively. Without
upsetting the academic calm or
converting dormitories into bar-
racks, it is supplying the nation
annually with between nine (noun
sand and ten thousand reserve
officers."

“Whether or not Grillllell will
have defense training next year
remains to be seen. at present it
is doubtful if we shall, but there
is no way to predict what ’cil‘-
cumstances may arise between
now and next fall.” Lotticli said.

Phi Bela Kappa
Honors lniﬁal’es

Phi Beta Kappa will hold a dlnr
ner in honor of the 12 newly in—
itiated members in the quadran—
gle dining room tonight, accord-
ing to Caroline Burtis.

Edward B. ’1‘, Spencer, profess
sor of Greek and archeology, will
give an address entitled “My Ed-
ucational Creed,” Miss Burtis
said.

Garrett P. Wyckoff, professor
of sociology, will succeed Louisa
Sargent, instructor in botany, as
president of the Grinnell chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa, Miss Burtis
stated today.

 

 

 

 

"MATHEWS
Rexall Drug

Plays--

continued from page 1

mother, set in the old ways, who
is aroused by the insolent be-
havior of a Japanese soldier to
a realization of the new kind of
war that china must fight. The
sharp impact of the climax here
was due chieﬂy to the excellent
character-drawing of Chang—U.
the mother, and to the style of
v iting, which approached at
times the quality of poetry.

The third play was a “natural"
to close the evening's program
with the proper note of light
comedy. "Brother Joseph Returns
to Babylon" by James Russell is
a fast-moving farce dealing with
fantastic goings-on in a fabulous
monastery that houses. to quote
the program, “an imaginary
Brotherhood." It is true that the
complications of the plot include
such an obvious device as the
identification of a long lost child
by means of an object left with
the babe on a doorstep, and that
the cast of characters comprises
such stock comedy figures as an
Irish policemen and a former
Shakespearean actor who has be-
come a habitualiand very funny
~drunkard.

But the situations themselves
are so comic and the lines so
laughable that one forgot these
obvious devices to revel in the
potent absurdity of Brother
Joseph’s plight.

The three plays were well stag-
ed, and the changos of scene be—
tween plays were accomplished
with remarkable despatch, con-
sidering the obstacles presented
by the auditorium stage.

The setting for “No Jade Shall
Burn,” designed by Virginia Brim-
hall, was the most striking of
the three. In all the plays the
acting, Loo, was competently
handled. One performance stood
out from the rest; Maiilyn Mc-
Cool read the lines of Cheng-U
with a distinction not present
elsewhere and gave to the old
Chinese peasant a timeless digs
nlty that made her a symbol of
China.

—sm——

YEAGER

Alf!) SEE BE‘I [ER
Glasses Fitted
Lenses Replaced

urlnncu, Town

For Those

"Las’r Picnics"
Before Exams
Slari',

Select Your
Supplies At the
North Market

Cottage Cheese
Cold Drinks

Buns
Meats
Fruits

In Fact, All That
You’ll Need to
Really Enjoy

Yourself

The
North Market

wmwxkam

PAGE THREE

The cast of “Brother Joseph
Returns to Babylon" put on the
nest “total" performance, perhaps
because the parts themselves were
so riotously funny that no one
could fail to enter wholeheartedly
into the spirit of mirth and
joility.

It is fortunate that the plays
are to be repeated at Commence-
ment so that visitors to the
campus and students who missed
last night's performance can see
what is being done at Grinnell to
develop creative talent in all the
departments of the theater.

. Buy Your
LUGGAGE NEEDS

At the

LEATHER
SHOP

yﬁlgﬁs

ON
ALL
RECORD
ALBUMS’

CLASSICAL
AND
POPULAR

FROM
STOCK
ONLY

George Paint
8 Appliance Co.

—Phone 3
We Deliver

Russell George, Prop.
BROAD sTltEET

 

