April 16, 1971’”

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Ngugi Tells of African Writers

Tuesday afternoon James
Ngugi, Kenyan novelist and
visiting professor at North-
western University, delivered
the week’s third lecture on
Africa, “African Writers’ Re-
sponse to Imperialism.”

He prefaced his remarks by
saying, “When one is writing,
one is not conscious of any
'ism.’ " Ngugi outlined the
conditions under which Afri-
can writers create. He found
Shakespeare‘s “The Temps
est” a useful point of de-
parture.

“Shakespeare dealt with col-
onialism before it was a glo—
be] phenomenon.” Prospero
takes over Caliban’s island
and imprisons him in a tree.
Then he lists all the benefits
he has brought the captive,
justifying the imprisonment
by charging Caliban with in-
gratitude.

" ‘l civilizedyou,"Prospero
might be saying. ‘I taught you

English or French. I Christ‘
ianized you.’ This is the col*
onial process Shakespeare is
describing. Prospero alsoad‘
mits to his daughter that they
cannot get along without Calif
ban because of all the useful
msks he performs. He is an
economic necessity, as are
die subject people ofcolonial»
ism," Ngugi explained.

Ngugi also discussed the
Western tendency to deny that
Africa has any history except
what has been created by
Europeans. Accompanying
diis passive interpretation of
the African is a whole school
of European literature depic~
ting African characters who
are submissive to their en~
vironment and always acted
upon.

”What the African novelist
tries to do," said Ngugi, ”is
to correct these misconcep~
tions. Achebe is sucha writer.
His characters have a vital

Cohen Traces Thought

last Thursday William Co-
hen, a historian of French
imperialism from Indiana
State, continued the Imperialr
ism Symposium with his lec-
ture, “The African Image in
Western Culture."

Drawing conclusions much
like those in Winthrop Jor‘
dan's prize-winning "White
over Black," Cohen tracedthe
history of white impressions
of Africa, saying that "Real-
ity is quite unimportant. It's
what people think that counts."

The ancient Greeks believed
that Africans and apes inter-
bred, a conclusion arising
from the discovery of black
men and men'like apes‘in the
same general area. The Bible
says of Ethiopians that they
will become 1‘white as snow"
upon conversion, revealing
early prejudices. In medieval
art, said Cohen, "The magus
who is to represent the black
world is always the youngest.
a kind of junior partner."

"wny pick on the black man?
One explanation is the Biblical
story of Ham on which was
built a legend that Ham's curse
was to father a black race.
This legend had a strong grip
on Western culture.

"Another possibility is the
need to rationalize slavery -
a need which arose much la-
ter, not until the seventeenth
century in the New World."

Cohen credited early twenr
tieth— century European intel-
lectuals like Proust, Freud,
and Gide with setting the stage
for an end to racism. They
saw all human values as rela-
tive and made the beginnings
of a Western culture which

 

was less sure of its perfec-
tions.

"But not until our own day
do we see anthropologists who
even begin to accept anything
like cultural relativism," Co~
hen said. Obviously even now
Western culture does not hold
a completely favorable ”Afri-

relationship with their social
and economic environment.
They live in history, but they
are not mere cogs in a mach~
inc. They have human dignity.
Achebe loiows exactly what he
wants to do as a writer » to
recreate the spirit ofa living
community and culture.”

During the questionranswer
period following the lecture,
the question of whether the
novel is an adaptable form or
an example of cultural imr
perialism arose. In part of
his response, Ngugi paraph-
rased Caliban's remark that
Prospero had taught him lan-
guage and now he could use
it to curse him.

"African writers are Strug’
gling against some limitations
of the novel. They are also
experimenting with other lit’
erary forms and are trans*
ferring some traditionalAfri-
oan oral forms to use in
written art."

on Africa

can image." But Cohen diff-
ered from Winthrop Jordan
by ending on an optimistic
HOICI

"If history teaches anything
it is that human relations are
unpredictable. Racism was
not always here, and it may
not continue forever."

RAYMOND BETTS, right, is about to introduce John
P. Morris to the Grinnell audience.

(Photo by Bob Birnbaum)

Morris Talks on Frant: Fanon

John Morris of Grinnell br~
ought a psychologist's pers-
pective to the works of Frantz
Fanon in a lecture Monday
night. Morris explained Fan-
on’s theories of Lhe scroalled
”dependency complex" of col-
onized peoples, the therar
peutic value of violence, and
the economic nature of
racism. Fanon saw racism as
white, rationalization for eco-

ARNOLD’S SHOES

Men --
Sandal weather

is coming up!

ARNOLD’ S SHOES

803 Fourth Avenue

nomic exploitation. However,
he also dealt with the sexual
connotations of racist thought,
connotations which might sug*
gest other than an economic
source for racism.

Morris called much of Fan~
on's analysis in Black Skin,
White Masks, the work of ”an
excellent psychiatrist.” In
reference to his advocacy of
violence, Morris noted that
Fanon himself always dis-
played "anguish" when disr
cussing the sufferings of re?
volutionary victims in Alger-
ia , from either side of the
conﬂict.

JAMES NGUGI
(Photo by John Rowell)

Profs Debate Nee-colonialism

Friday, Grinnell professors
James Magee, Robert Grey,
and Alan Nasser discussed
neorcolonialism and gave
their audience a fairly clear
idea of the kind of diversity
of opinion which is possible
on the subject.

Magee gave as a definition
of neo- colonialism "the con“
cern that after political inde-
pendence, control over former
colonies will be exercised by
other means." Most of this,
Magee felt, was concerned
with economic control of for
mer colonies, and he said that
there are some indisputible
cases of attempts to control
governments by economic
means.

Magee believes former col-
onies have a real dilemma --
unless they chose to try to
become self sufficient, or de
velop a unified economy with
other developing countries
(neither of which courses has
nor worked well in the past),
or to reject Western standards
of living (which is out of the
question for most), they must
come to some agreement with
the developed countries on
which they depend for econ0*
mic advancement. .

Grey considered nee-imper-
ialism to be generally an eco—
nomic phenomenon typified by
a continucdlow economiclevel
of underdeveloped countries,
and a growing disparity be-
tween developing and devel—
oped countries. He felt the
primary question concerning
neo- imperialism was its caus
ses, and he was particularly
concerned with whether the
United States government pro-
motes neorimperialist eco~
nomic interests.

Outside of the general mo-
tive of trying to prevent the

TRAVEL NEWS

FIRST TIME , STUDENT RAIL-

PASS .

2 months $125 for 13

European countries

ALSO CONSIDER. STOP TOURS
CHARTER- TOURS to Europe .
$837 and up

CAMPING in Europe - 22 days
or more $567 and up

MOTORSCOOTER holidays in
Britain , from $337

Ask a professional A your local Travel Agent

GRINNELL TRAVEL CENTER

expansion of Communist in~
fluence or what looks like
such inﬂuence, Grey conclu-
ded that the United States
Government has no single pre-
vailing interest in the Third
World. Some of its motives
are economic, Grey said;
some are non-economic. So-
metimes the U.S. government
actually can make its willpre-
vail on the thirdWorld;some—
times it fails or does not try.

Nasser tried to put neo- col‘
onialism into a broader con-
text of the world economy as
it has developed under imper-
ialism for the last several
centuries. He said that ori-
ginal intervention into the
Third World by mpimllst cou-
ntries caused economic stag-
nation in those countries,
since the colonies were being
used only for the benefit of-
the advanced capitalist coun-
tries.

Nasser said that after many
years of intervention in the
third World by advanced mp-
iialist countries,an integrated
world economy along with the
inequities and national poli-
cies aimed at increasing those
inequities was established. To
develop well, a developing
country must break out ofthis
frame work, and revolution is
the only way, Nasser said. He
gave North Korea, Orbs, and
China as examples of where
this has been successful.

During an hour-longfree dis-
cussion, the three professors
revealed a number of their
differences in sometimes hea-
ted discussion, but without
coming to any major agree-
ments. Ignorance on such im-
portant factual questions as
“Aren't there any starving
peasants in Sinypore’l" (Nas-
ser), and “Where is the wealth
in Chad?" (Magee) held up
the discussion at several
points. The climax in the dis-
cussion came when Grey ex-
plained at length why former
colonies which haveamlntmal
population have very little oh:
ance for economic develop-
ment.

Road Service

¢

leo’ s Standard

236- 7160
SIXTH & WEST

 

