Judicial Council Convicts Snider

The Main l-lallJudicial Coun-
cil Wednesday night convicted
Steve Snider on seven of ten
charges brought against him
by Main residents Larry Golda
stein and Robert Eckhardt
concerning disturbances in
Main the night of September
25. Snider reportedly will ape
peal the decision to the allr
campus Judicial Council.
Goldstein Complaint

Under the Goldstein com—
plaint Snider was found

1. Not guilty of personal as-
sault.

2. Not guiltyofkickingdoors
in the Main third hallway.

3. Guilty of the destruction
of college property.

4. Guilty of breaking bottles
in Main Hall.

5. Guilty of preventing Main
residents from going about
their business through fear,
threat of assault, and other
hazards.

Eckhardt Complaint
Under the Eckhardt complaint,
Snider was found

1. Not guilty of taking a
party into the hallway and
infringing upon the rights of
others.

2. Guilty of infringing on
the rights of people in their
own rooms by kicking bed
frames and the trash can, but
not guilty of kicking on doors.

3. Guilty of damage done on
third floor: trash can kicked
over and trash strewn around
the hall, bottles broken on the

'Flag At Full Mast?

The familiarflagpolein front
of the Forum will soon disap-
pear, and Grinnell students
will find themselves lookingat
two new flag poles standing on
the Central Campus side of
Herrick Chapel. One of the
flagpoles will fly the United
Nations flag, and the other one
the United States flag, in ac-
cordance with the college
Trustees' ruling of last year
declaring Grinnell a “World
College”.

The new flagpoles willprer
sent something ofa problem,
however, because our present
American ﬂag is being flown
at half mast, and it is illegal
to fly the United Nations flag
above the American flag. The
college also does not have the
jurisdiction to require that
the United Nations flag be
ﬂown at half mast.

Halt-Mast Policy

The history of the present
half-mast policy dates back to
the Spring of 1969, when Gov—
ernor Ray of Iowa suggested
that public institutions fly
their flags at halfmast When-
ever an Iowan died in Vietnam.
The college Senateatthattime
voted to do just that, except
that it became very hard to
determine when an Iowan had
died on any particular day. So
the flag was just flownathalf-
mast on every day, to mourn
not only lowans but any Cili'
zen who was killed in action.
The new situation with the two
flags brings up the question of
whether or not students want to
resume flying the American
flag at full mast.

stairs and in the hallway.

4. Guilty of general lack of
consideration for other resi-
dents of Main Hall.

5. Guilty of generating fear
In others living in Main Hall,
i.e. people scared to use the
hall or ask for quiet.

On the basis of these deci-
sions, the Main Hall Judicial
Council in Article III of its
statement on the case, found
Snider guilty of

l, Inordinate lack of coir
sidcration for the rights and
feelings of Others.

2. Violent behavior.

3. Generation of an atmos-
pherc of fear in Main Hall.

Sentence

The Council stated that in
view of these violations it
recommends that Snider be
assessed for the cost or re-
pair of one broken chair, that
he reimburse the ForeignStur
dent Board for the broken
bOttles, and that he be placed
on Conduct Probation for the
rest of the semester in recog*
nition of the offenses listed in
Article III above.

The council made it clear that
Snider would violate the cons
duct probation if he was found
guilty of subsequent similar
behavior. In such a case, the
Council stated, “we recom~
mend that Steve Snider be re-
quired to live off campus."

Appeal Case
Snider plans to take the case

to the all-campus Judicial
Council due to the fact that he

Mezvinsky Encourages Student

by Phil Sasich

Approximately 100 members
of the Grinnell community last
Tuesday heard Ed Mezvinsky,
possible Democraticcong‘resr
sional candidate from the first
district, urge students to ex-
ercise their voting rights. In
the First District (which now
includes Poweshiek County)
Mezvinsky feels the student
vote will be particularly crur
cial. He lost the 1970 elec-
tion to incumbent Fred Sch-
wengel by 765 votes “20,000
were cast). Since that time
one county which voted heava
ily Republican has been eli-
minatcd from the district, and
two others where the voters
were very evenly dividedhave
been added to it. Thus Mez-
vinsky suggests that the 18-
21 year»old voters would, with
a concerted effort, determine
who is to represent this dis-
trict.

In addition to participation
in the electoralprocess, Mez~
vinsky encouraged students to
translate their awareness of
social injustice into positive
action. Specifically he lauded
the emergence of ISPIRG-ra
consumer advocate group fir
nanced andadministered sole-
ly by students.

In turning frompoliticalpars
ticipation to American social
ills, Mezvinsky inveighed a—
gainst a "depersonalization"
of American society, He cited
the proliferations ofmammoth
corporations as exemplary.

FOR LATE NIGHT MUNCHIES, YOU CAN’T BEAT

DANISH MAID.

DANISH MAID BAKERY

818 Fourth Avenue

Omaha: 8, 1971

The Scarlet and Black

disagrees with the Main Hall
Judicial procedure which does
not allow the defendant an
”attorney.”

Unfair Tl'iul

Steve, and his advisor Nick
Russo, believe thatuntler cur-
rent Main Hall Judicial Coun~
cil procedure Steve cannot get
a fair trial because he is emo»
tionally involved in the matter
and therefore lilSabilitled8’
fend hinisclfis impaired. Fur
thermore, Steve 's memory of
the incidentisnotcleat~,anclhe
feels that Nick Russo as his
attorney could give him an
adequate defense in the appeal.
Tension in the dorm sur-
rounding the mceling could
have been created by several
disturbances which have oc*
curred in Main Hall the past
few weeks. Although come
plaints were made about these
instances, no persons aside
from Snider have been for
mally charged.

DesMoines Rally

The Jewish Community Cenr
ter of Des Moines has pron
cured for Grinnoll students
free transportation to and
from the large Des Moincs
rally this Sunday in support
of Sowet Jews. The rally will
take place on the front steps
of the Capitol building in Des
Moines, adjacent to the high-
ly publicized Foreign Food
Festival.

Students will leave the South
Campus parking lot at 1:00
p.m. Sunday.

By 1985, he complained, 200
corporations will control 85%
of the corporate wealth in the
United States if the present
trends continue. m

The result of size, he mairr

tains, is governmental lnSCn’
sitivity to human life and the
individual. Indicative of this
administrative cancer is the
use of statistics in conveying
the de’AmeI‘lCZlniZaliOn of the
Viet Nam War (e.g. now only
15 per week are killed as ope
posed to so a few months ago.
We should not forget, he
stressed, that each one of
those fifteen is a human life.)

He feels that this insensir
tivity is reflected in the Pros
ident's economic policy. Under
the Nixon approach, contends
Mezvinsky, corporate expair
sion is stressed; instead, he
feels that consumer spending
should be stimulated. Income
tax cuts, etc., would accomr
plish this goal. This general
approach along with acrossa
therboard controls on pres
fits and interest would more
thoroughly serve ]uSiiCe and
more effectively treat our
economic doldrums.

Mr, Mozvinsky’s emphasis
on the supremacy ofindivtdual
right and needs (as opposed to
the presently ascondant col”
poration power) was consis-
tent throughout the interview

”Precious littles"

by

Maitlonform
They are. . ,
natural, comfortable,
free, unique,
colorful
and
REALLY YOU!

9

9U0 Main

The Smile Tells All

Grinning with relief and
satisfaction, director of

the Education

Physical
Complex John Pfltsch won
comes everyone to the new

lye opened sports pa lace.

Alumni Visit For The Weekend

Grinnell alumni from across
the country will converge on
the college mmpus for Alumni
Day. The purpose of the day is
to give alumni the opportunity
to visit the campus at a time
when classes are in session
and to talk with students.

Satu rday C losses

The day's activites begin at

8:30 with a coffee for alumni,
faculty, and students in the
South Lounge of the Forum.
Although a few students have
received invitations, every
body is invited to visit with
the alumni. Saturday morning
classes will be open to the
alumni so they can visit with
the students and faculty.

The morning’s activites will
conclude with coffee hours in
selected residence hails from
10:00 [0 12:00. All alumni
have been asked to visit their
old halls and talk with stu-

dents currently living in them.

After lunch, the afternoon‘s
activities begin With Mr. El’
bert Smith, Prof. Emeritus of
Music and French, giving a
recital on the carillon. which
are tower bells. After the
football game against Coc,and
the cross country meet with
Cornell and Parsons, late af»
ternoon tours ofthe P.E. Com~
plex are scheduled.

Water Show

An Open House Water Show
will be presented at the P.E.
Complex from 7 to 8. Then at
7:30 the movie version of
Orwell’s I984 Will be shown
in ARH. Grinnell’s own Blue
Grass Group will perform in
the South Lounge at 8:00, and

at 9:30 the Ali Akbar Khan
concert will be given in Her-

rick Chapel. The evening’s
activities will conclude with
another showing of 1984 in
ARH.

Idealism And Positive Action

and his public remarks. He
feels that the welfare pro-
grams should be assumed by
the Federal gpvernment, since
state governmentsﬂhatve mal-
administered it. Public jobs,
decreased defense expendi‘
tures and reform of many
government programs are ne-
cessities, Mezvinsky thinks,
in rectifying problems of po,
verty.

He further expressed his
support for increased funding
for day care centers, for leav-
ing the question of abortion up
to individual women and their
doctors, and for immediate
abolition of the draft.

In foreign affairs, Mezvinr
sky asserted the need for a
reevaluation of our commit-
ments abroad and the policy
of underwriting those commit-
ments.

The Viet Nam issue will not
be unimportant in the up
coming elections unless the
president decides to terminate
our involvement completely
before Nov. 1972. He feels
that the Nixon administration

has created the “illusion”
of disengagement when in fact
people are still dying and the
UnitedStates is still support-
ingr'a corrupt regime. Mle
vinsky contends that McClos-
key’s challenge to Nixon is a
valid one.

In my opinion Mr. Mezvinsky
both in words and feelings has
the kind of social conscience
that most Grinnell students
see grieviously lacking in the
normal political animal. Ilvas
refreshed by the opennessand
honesty this man exhibited
both in my interview With him
and in the Forum meeting. 1
have reservations about Mr.
Mezvinsky’s rampant ideal-
ism, a quality that is laudable
but seldom effective in the
legislative arena. This reserr
vation should be qualified»-
Mezvinsky hasworkcdwith the
Nader orgnization asa legisa
lative assistant in Congress,
and a State legislatureand thus
appears to have ample exper-
ience with both (lie marble
towers of Washington and the
Golden Dome of Des Moines.

 

BUDWEISER

Ctn. Six

'18

Price good thru Tuesday, Oct. 12

lo-gallon aquariums

ego $588

 

Dllllll
l’lllll

 

 

 

