CAM PUS '

Freshmen confront registration,
housmg
,- “t

Checkout line. Done ol lastl

Afternoon
bells silenced

by Sydney Henlnom

In a recent letter to both the faculty
and the students, Dean Catherine S
Frazer announced that the clock
system in all academic buildings has
been converted in a solid state system,
This change in, the bell systems will
reduce the general noise level during
afternoon classes. It was decided not to
ring the afternoon bells for the opening
and closing of classes because of the
mamr overlapping of scheduled class
periods

Dean Frazer explained that the
morning classes run generally on an
hour»unlt schedule,unlike thealternoon
schedule which fluctuates between lab
sessions, scmlnars. and hourrunit
periods Frazer also mentioned that the
new bell system affects only a handful
of Class changes that require a more
irequent hcll series

Frazer commented that she feels
most Grinnell professors and students
are aware of the length of the classes
and should not have any problems
adJusting to the new system By the end
of this first week of classes, Frazer
hopes the new system will have tested
itself toward its intended purpose

Dean Frazer reported that there have
not been any lorma] complaints against
this change, but she also feels that this
will not be a major campus issue.

Augus/ 29, 1980

shortage
gt!» a

photo by Barry Jarrett

by Bob Kteine

Approximately 425 new students
arrived at Grinnell on Wednesday,
August 20 to participate in the New
Student Day festivities. Despite
housing problems, most of the fresh-
men Survived all the excitement with
only a few mishaps.

On Sunday, Chris Mortika arrived at
Darby Gym for registration at 7 a.m.,
which gave him the honor of being the
first in line.

Of the new students. 358 are fresh-
men, 12 are re-admissions and 55 are
transfer students. Total new student
enrollmentis roughly equivalent to that
oi last year

The student body is geographically
diverse, with approximately one-third
of the students coming from the East,
West. and Midwest, respectively,

However, all is not trouble free for
the newest batch of Grinnellians. As it
is at the beginning of every year, the
housing for some of the new students is
crowded. According to Susan Wittpenn,
Dean of Housing, “The dorms are
crowded; it’s never been this bad.”
Sixteen students presently reside in
overflow housing. These 16 students
must eventually move away from their
“room” and find happiness and the
Grinnell Experience in another part,
Usually, these students are either the

fourth student in triple rooms or are
temporarily in lounges which have fire
exits. In order to comply with State
Fire laws, they must vacate these
lounges at the first possible con-
venience.

Janet Becker and Amy Smith are in
this situation. They live in the James
third ﬂoor lounge. Becker Stated, “A
person cannot really settle in, since
another move is inevitable.” They are
hoping to remain roommates when they
move, however, they will almost surely
be split up Both women appear to be
accepting this as just another in-
convenience they must live with as
freshmen.

Academically the freshmen class is
much like last year’s incoming
students. This year’s average SAT
scores are 570 verbal and 590 math.
compared with 570 and so) for last
year's freshmen. Sixty~seven percent of
the freshmen were in the top fifth of
their class,

While the differences between the two
latest freshmen classes appear to be
trivial on paper, John Hopkins,
Director of Admissions. is very pleased
with the class. Hopkins stated, “It’s
been a long time since I’ve been so
impressed with an incoming class. The
varied interests, talents, and abilities of.
these students is simply staggering.”

 

