  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
    
       

John Faber

University of Alabama

"Water Shortage'I

 

John H. Vondell

"Country Harmony" Sczond n...
Massachusetts State College

l'Seein' Double“

mm» .

Candid and Action Photo:

The Human Side

The great popularity ol action and can-
did photography in the U. 5. is not re-
ilected in the number of prints submitted
in Collegiate Digest's special competi-
tion. Entries in this group lell lar below
the mark set by the other classifications
but the standards maintained in the diviA
sion are equally as high — as the win-
ning prints on this page prove. The spon-
taneity and liveliness lound in these
prints rellect accurately the two chiel
qualities of the candid photograph that
mal<e this branch ol the art so intriguing.
So difficult to attain in any photograph,
these pictures have the warm human in-
terest that makes all who view them com-
mend the line results obtained. More oi-
ten the result of a happy circumstance
than ol carelul planning, the taking oi a
candid or action photo that wins top
salon honors is indeed a great achieve-
ment lor any photographer.

 

  

Joseph T. Marchel

University of Minnesota

