SGA election declared invalid

Wednesday's SGA presidential elccr
tion was declared null and void by the
SGA Election Board atter a briei
meeting Wednesday night.

The election was contested and
declared invalid on the grounds that
discrepancies existed in student ID

Checking procedures None oi the canv
didates brought the charges to the
election board's attention. Another-
election will be held Monday in the
post oiiice and ID’s are mandatory,
Wednesday's vote totals were as
follows: Paul Voiker zio, Lu Anne

Shearer 113, Chris Nylandcl‘ 112,
George 'l‘urnbiill 40, Andy Miller 37,
and Paul Carter 27. Ten writeiii
ballots were cast, including one ior
George Drake. The total number oi
ballots cast was 533, with some as-
sumed not returned to the ballot box.

Faculty clumps media credit proposal

by D Tony Ftyrin

Monday ailernoon the iacuity re-
jected a proposal to award practicum
credit [or work on campus media and
approved a plan to redeiine member
ship on the Executive CounCll.

Aiter extensive discussion, the pro-
posal for media credit was resounr
dingiy deieated. The discussion
revolved around the philosophical
ideals and practical realities concern
ing practica.

Students ior the proposal argued
that granting Credit for media work is
no different than granting such credit
for work in theatre or chorus.

Faculty argumens against the pros
posai divided into two camps. One
group argued irom a philosophical
point oi view, indicting all types oi
practicum credit on grounds of lack of
academic value. The other faction
claimed that theatre and chorus were
dilferent, because such activities are
more closely supervised by iaeulty
members,

immediately beiore the vote, one
student debunked the latter position,
and plead ior equity in awarding pracc
tica: “Il‘ you're not going to give the
media credit, at least be consistent
and remove the credits from the other

areas.”

Several iacully members responded,
“Hear, Hear.”

The changes in Executive Council
structure were submitted by the
Faculty Organization Committee.
Basically, the proposals will add the
newly created Dean of the Faculty t0

crease the administration had to agree
to cut one iaeuity position and two-
andahaii to three administrative
positions. He elaborated that the ad-
ministration decided to temporarily
take the one iacuity position irom the
Russian Department, which is losing a
member due to attrition anyway. He

 

“If you’re not going to give the media

credit, at least be consistent and

remove the credits from the other areas."

 

the council, and reduce the faculty
membership on the committee irom
nine to seven, The motions also
change the distribution or iacuity
members, reducing the importance oi
the divisional structure by electing
less members as divisional represen-
tatlves, and more members as at-
iarge representatives.

Concluding the meeting, Dean
Waldo Walker announced that the
trustees had agreed to a 12 percent
pay increase tor iacuity members He
said, though, that to obtain this in-

said that later this spring a permanent
decision will be made as to which
department will lose the position. The
administrative cuts will also be due to
attrition.

Walker said that President Drake,
who was out oi town this week, will
deliver a lull report on the trustees
meeting at the next {acuity meeting.
(That seemed to contradict Walker's
claim at the beginning oi the meeting
that in Drake‘s absence Walker had
periormed a “bloodless coup” and
was new “President Walker”)

Advertising impact reinforces stereotypes

by town Jackson

Thursday. Feb. 28. Jean Kilbournc
presents “The Naked Truth: Advertise
ing’s image of Women," a slide
presentation that examines the
speciiie ways in which advertisemen.»
reiniorce stereotypes and aiiecl scli’-'
images.

A United Nations Commission on the
Status of Women claims that
“advertising is the worst offender in
perpetuating the image of women as
sex symbols and an inierior class oi
human being." Although adver-
tisements sometimes appear trivial.
Kiiboui ill. believes that their
cumulative impact on our stereotypes,
sell-images, and ideas oi normalcy is
very great indeed. Through the ex
arninatmn clover 200 Slides of advcrr

4

tisements irom a variety oi
magazines, she raises such issues as
the caricaturing oi iemininity and
masculinity, the exploitation of sex-
uality, the negative attltude toward
maturity in women, the fostering of
competition among women. and the
gloriﬁcation oi violence against them.
Ari increase in the awareness of the
impact and underlying messages or
advertisements will open up
possibilities ior change

“The Naked Truth” has been
presented to hundreds iii .AxllUUl. Ullr
legc, business and community groups.
and to women’s gioups such as the
National Organization (or Women, the
Association ior Women in Psychology,
and International Women's Year.
Reviews lrom The Vi|lage Voice. the

i

president or now, and several col-
leges and universities including ruiis,
Brandeis, MIT, and Harvard Business
School enthusiastically praise
Kiibourncs' presentation,

A graduate oi Wellesley College,
Kilbourne is currently Assistant niree
tor oi the New England Screen Educa
tion Association, an Associate oi the
Women's institute ior Freedom or the
Press, and a member oi the Steering
Committee oi the National Center ior
Women in the Periormiiig and Media
Arts. she has taught women's studies
and media studies on the high school,
college, and adult education level.

This third Scholars' Convocation will
be held at it a.m. in Roberts Theater,
not Herrick chapel. in order to ac-
eOmOdate the slide presentation,

Scarlei and Block,

 

