Page 4

THE‘ sciliﬂlér ANb‘ BLACK“

‘loewi Doesn’t Speak For Me’ 7h 30047 5:10

To the Editor:

I applaud Andy Loewi’s in-
terest in American foreign
policy and his willingness IO
act on his convictions. I be
lieve his telegram ofFebruary
9 has captured the general
sentiments of must ofhis cone
stituents.

However, as a student of
Grinnell College, I must in*
dignantly object to his vigr
orous protestations on my be-
half. Although I have mixed
feelings on the wisdom ofAm-
erimn support for the South

loewi Defends

To the Editor:

A number of students have
leveled criticism at my use
the phrase "on behalf of the
students of Grinnell College"
in my recent telegram to Pr—
esident Nixon. Ihave respond‘
ed individually to those who
have written to me or come
to me directly; this letter is
in response tl'i those who have
not.

At certain times it is the
duty of the SGA President
to speak on behalf of the stu-
dent body. I was called upon
to exercise this mandate last
spring during the Cambodiar
Kent Smte crisis; during this
year I have been called upon
repeatedly to exercise this
mandate before the faculty
and administration on a pier
thora of issues ranging from
student involvement in coll'
ege governance to general
curricular requirements. I
have never purported to con
sistently represent student
opinion on these matters, but
with_regard to Laos I was
confident that a vast majori:
ty of students supported the
psition I communicated to Pr-
esident Nixon. I feel that my
four years of rather intense
involvement in mmpus and
national politics here has giv-
en me some ability to assess
the temper and temperature
of Grinnell students. I could

WhalCan

by J.C. Labowltz

Every spring a rite takes
place called "graduation",
where those who have persev-
and amassed 124 credits from
someplace are ejected into the
"real world" (for further in*
formation on the real world,
see your Army recruiter, or
Greg Vranicar, who probably
has a committee discussing
it).

Yes, those who are graduat-
ing, or the perseverees, get
together for the first time
since New Students' Days for
the benefit ofthe perseverors,
or the parents who have banks
rolled the whole thing. Much
fun and games occur, includ*
_ing some FFO parties, and
around May 29. with Pres.
Leggett, Dean Wall and Kurt
Vonnegut (Caine Tederman
had a previous engagement)
presiding, about 226 members
of the class of '71 emerge
into the ranks of college gr-
aduates and alumni, and some
even consider getting a job.

One of the traditions assoc-
iated with this ancient rite
includes the presentation of
a gift of some sort from the
graduating class. This gift is
financed from contributions
from the seniors, who, after
spending $13,265 in four ye-
ars here, have plenty ofmoncy
to spare. The reason tormen-

Vietnamese invasion of Laos,
I emphatically disagree with
the causal relationships impl»
icd in the text of his [616’
gram. I would contend that
at least a few others on this
campus do not share his cone
clusions. It is not enough that
most who dissentfrom widely*
held beliefs al Grinnell Coll-
ege are drugged by subtle doV
ses of peer pressure into sil-
ence, withoutaneffort toplace
words in their mouths?
Respectfully submitted
Greg Thielmann, ’72

leller 0n loos

have called for a mass meet
ing, but how many of you wo-
uld have come? I could have
set up a referendum, but how
many of you would have vot—
ed, and how much time and
paper wouldhave been wasted?

The words “on behalf of”
are perhaps confusing and can
be interpreted in a number of
ways. I might suggest tothose
who disagreed with the tele-
gram that they compose one
of their own. I know, how»
ever, that if I had not sent
a telegram to the President
and had not taken the initi-
ative in organizing the tele
gram and post card campaign
that not a peep would have
been heard from Grinnell
College on what many people
feel to be a most serious
escalation of our war effort
in Southeast Asia.

I have heard more students
upset lately with my use of
words than with the invasion
of Laos. Perhaps, just as our
nation must do, some stur
dents need to reorder their
priorities. But at least some
students' are upset about
something. One hopes that [h’
eir discontent will move be
yond semantics and into such
trivial matters as racism,
poverty, sexism, the draftand
the war.

Andy Loewi
SGA President.

YouGiveA College?

tioning all of this is that the
Class of '71 is presently at—
tempting to decide what gift
the seniors should be contri-

buting monev towards.

All of this has prompted me
to consider what would be the
most appropriate gift for the
Class of ’71 to donate to the
college. My first inspiration
in this regard was to locate
Tom Greenfield’s classic CO‘
lumn on last year's class gift
and plagerize a few choice
suggestions of his. Alas,Iwas
unable to locate a copy of
the paper, but as Iremembe'r,
Tom’s idea was to donate a
buffalo herd to the college,
an idea worthy of some air
ention, although not here. He
also pictured a past class
glft“[he rock in front of St-
einer, donated after an OUE’
break of Dutch rock disease
wiped out all the campus
rocks.

The gift for this year could
be money for new library
books, or for paying a ransom
to Steve Hutchings to return
all the old ones he has had
for quite a while. Or we could
continue Grinnell's commit-
ment to a complete physical
education program by financ-
ing the construction ofa rolls
er derby palladium, so that
we can have the‘San Francis-
co Bay Ari... Bbmbcrs face
the Midwest Pioneers (not to

waRe BEAMS
\tQ cm—

February 12, 1971

by Jon Stein

House Presidents Seek Answer

At a Monday night meeting,
the Senate discussed its two
major preoccupationsﬁabOe
lition of itself and changes in
President Leggett's proposal
for faculty reorganization.

Several house presidents,
who were there wanting first-
hand information about the
merger of Senate and AWS/
C of HP board, attended [hC
meeting. They seemed to feel
that whether or not the con»
solidalion took place, the fun
ctions of house presidentsand
board would have to be better
defined next year.

8. Thomas said that, as he
visualized it, presidents would
merely be given control over
the Judicial Councils, Initia-
tive Fund, budget, and the
dormtrelated decisions now
made by the Senate. Andy
Loewi added thatpicking com*
mittee members, which takes
up an estimated 75% of the
Senate’s time now, would be
left to the committees them-
selves. ,_
Other Senators were not so
happy about the idea of self'
perpetuating committees.

The results of the faculty
meeting were also discussed.
James Magee, associate pres
fessor ofpoliticalscicnce, had
told SGA membersabout Clots
felter’s resolution at a com-

be confused with the Grinnell
teams of the same name) right
here on campus. We could just
convert the women's gym into
a little Cow Palace by banks
ing the curves on the second
floor ramp.

Alex Karlin (Silver Spring
Maryland) suggested that we
should finance the replace-
ment of all the remaining one
sheet dispensers in the johns
with roll dispensers, thereby
wiping out a source of great
aggravation. Alex has some
other suggestions along these
same lines, but he will have
to explain thost: himself.

Some money could be allocr
ated to provide Gaylord the
dog with a mate, to insure the
continued presence ofsuch ty-
pes on campus. Some money
could also be allocated topro-
Vldc (fill in a name of your
own choosing) with a mate,
to insure the continued pre
sence of that type on campus.

In any case, the seniors have
a rare opportunity before the
em”[he chance to provide a
lasting memorial oftheir time
on campus, while at the same
time depleting their bank ac-
counts and absolutely guarane
teeing a steady stream of
appeals for money from the
Development Office, and they
will find you no matter where
you go.

mittee meeting Salurdaymorr
ning. It was felt that the Sen‘
ate should try toappointsome»
one associated with the old
special education division as
its at large membcr, since
this division would be other
wise unrepresented.

Other routine business ”1’
cluded approval ofJanice Pal-
mer for the Judicial Council,
and appropriation of $500 to
get the White Roots of Peace,
a group of Mohawk Indians, to
come for lectures, dlScLISS’

by Ron Medvin

”I SEEN through junkies I
been through it all/I seen
religion from Jesus to Paul/
Don’t let them fool you with
dope and cocain/Can't do you
no harm to feel yourown pain/
I found out!" These lines are
from John Lennon's newest
release and they represent the
whole theme of the album.
John Lennon is, for the first
time, revealing himself, and
it is not an easy thing to take.
In two words, the emotions
John sings about are “love”

As most of you know, John
and Yoko went through six
months of therapy with Dr.
Arthur Janov and his contro-
versial “primal scream” te-
chniques. Dr. Janov believes
that by painfully reliving old
experiences, the “patient"
can overcome his depres-
sions. When listening to this
album, one feels he is listen-
ing to John in a therapy. 595*
sion. The first song is called
"Mother," a song about his
mother’s death and his father
who left him after his birth.
At the end, he repeats the
lines, “Mother don't gO/Dadr
cly come home", each time
singing them louder and lends
er until he is screaming. He
then goes right into the next
cut, where he tells himself
that “It’s gonna be alright."
The following song is called
"I Found Out“ and some of
these lyrics are quoted in the
first paragraph. This isa very
depressing song, as John cuts
apart his days as a Seattle.
(The twoepart interview in
Rolling Stone is excellent, ale
though like the song, very dc-
pressing. However, road it if
you can get a hold ofa copy).
The next song could be called
the title song, although the
album has no title. ”Working

ions, and demonstrations of
their culture in April. A ligbr
terethanrair balloonist may
also float in some time in the
future.

The $75 left over from the
fund created at the time of
the Cambodian invasion was
v0ted as a donation to the
National Peace Action Coali-
tion for its spring activities.
Representatives of various
committees were approved to
meet with the Budget Priors
ities Planning Committee.

Class Hero" is a very beam ,
tlful and moving ballad about
John‘s prerBeatle days in
Liverpool. "They hurt you
at home and they hit you at
school/They hate you ifyou‘re
clever and they despise a
fool/Till you’re so fucking
crazy you can‘t follow their
rules/A working class hero is
something to be." Onceagain,
it seems as if John is "in a
primal” (as he himself says)
painfully reliving his past. He
goes on to sing in “Isolation",
“Just a boy and a little girl/
Trying to change the whole
wide world . . ." speaking of
Yoki and himself.

There are two excellent love
songs on the album; John’s
deep love for Yoko. “Look
At Me" has simple rhyming
lyrics and a hauntingly beauti-
ful melody. The other song,
“Love”, begins with a melo-
dic piano solo that sounds like

(continued to page 6)

Any new student who wishes
to have an interview with the
General Electric recruiter on
February 26 should sign up in
the Carreer Services Office
before February 19.

"I. Starla! I link 5mm Mawspwlrol
Grlm-ll cellop-
erimntim so 2
t. tsunami.“ main-m Publishm “in,
at.” mum: mum, and mums mm
by llennncllG/mmluei “lanthanum”:
swim. m as» m “an y...

Edltnr

Managing [aim

Euslmn Maine!
sun

om ma»
mu. mum

Al Schema

5am. mmm. om
com", new my.

6ng Olin"

Jlm an

Ellxnbllh “any, Mm

cm Edlmr

a."
m...» tam. mt

MunvaM

a.» a...“ a..."

1.9..

a... m. ,

mm.“ swim '

mm... an», Guam mm

mam am mm, mm,
mm... m... 5m, tart. alum,
amt/cum. um sohlmm, Marilyn
may. n... m... at, w... pan
5Pll|2, Lynn. 01mm, LC. Lubnwlu, Ron

meoqrahy mm
sum

mm mm»

 

mm"

 

