 

The Grinnell
Scarlet and Black

Thirteen Students Face Election Eor
At-large Seat 0n College EPC

(photo by Dan Henry)

Perched on the window sill, sophomore Benjie Katz gesti-
culates a point during a recent Cowles Hall meeting held to

set hours and other regulations.

Election Monday. . .

Four In School Board Race

by Lynne Ogawa
The election of two members
to the Board of Directors of
the Grinnell-Newburg Scho-
ol System Monday will mark
the first time Grinnell stu»
dents have the opportunity to
participate in local elections.

In order tovote here, Amerir

can citizens 18 or over must
have lived in Iowa for at
least six months and in Power
shiek County for at least 60
days. This automatically eli-
minates freshman students
who are not Iowa residents.
Some elected officials oppose
the present law, but until the
lowa Legislature changes the
law the regulations will be in
effect.

However, as the present law
reads, any student who has
lived here one full school
year is eligible to vote—-rc-
gardless of whether or not he
was absent during the sume
mer.

Poweshiek County requires
no registration according to
Iowa law, which compelsvoter
registration only from coun-
ties antl towns exceeding (0'
ral populations of 50,000 and
10,000 respectively.

If students prefer to vote in
their own hometowns, they can
arrange for absentee ballolr
ing through their county clerk.

Persons living west of High»
way 146 should vote at Bailey
Park School whilepcrsons liv-
ing east of Highway 146 should
report to the Veteran’s Mew
morial Center. Voting willbe
held from noon till 8:00 p.nl.
Monday, September 13,

Running for the Board are
Mr. Harold McCulloch and
Howard Warner (l\rea l) and
Kenneth Keenan and William
Waddell (Area IV). Also up
for election ls the position of
school district treasurer.
Mrs, Helen Hargrave is u”,
opposed in her bid for roe
election to that post

Students wishing to learn
more about the candidatesand

their platforms should refer
to the September 2 issue of
the “Grinnell HeraldrRegis-
ter," which contains back-
ground summaries of the four
candidates and some of their
views on current school pro-
blems.

The Board administers the
Grinnellr Newburg School sys~
tem. it establishes policies
and employs the Superinten-
dent of Schools, who is re?
sponsible for personnel and
policy administration. The
Board also handles the budget.
Five members elected for
staggered terms of three
years comprise the Board.
Other members include Fre-
sident Maynard Raffety, Mr.
James McNally, and Mr. Har-
vey Mikel, Jr.

by Toby Wosk
andeleSchaub

Sunday night at 6:30 in the
South Lounge each applicant
for the College Educational
Policy Committee will pre‘
sent a short statement and
asnwer questions from stu-
dents.

The election will be Tuesr
day, in the lunch lines fOrSlCU‘
dents who eat lunch at Saga
and off‘campus students will
vote through their mailboxes.
Monday there will be an all-
college election to determine
the atrlarge member of the
newlyeestablished Educatio-
nal Policies Committee.

The S St E has spoken to
each of the thirteen candle
dates and their statements
follow;

Carolyn Ashbaugh

Carolyn Ashbaugh opposes
grades, finding they create an
undesireable competitive Sll’
uation. She believe the pre-
sent pass/fail system to be a
"fiasco," and would like to
see an expansion of indepen-
dent study, looking toward a
time when a person could do
a lércredit independent pro-
ject in one semester. She
would also like to get the
S-credit limit of independent
study per department changed.

Mike Breed

Mike Breed believes he is
qualified for the job, since
he served on the Student Se-
nate last year and was in on
the organizing of the EPC.
He would like to see the den
partmental structure as it
exists now “radically chan—
ged or abolished. I think the
reforms that have been made
in the last few years have
been good but we've just been
building on the past. Iwant
to analyze the factors and total
them up to something new."

Greg Butcher
Greg Butcher says he Icnows

all the administrators, and
most of the faculty and stu-
dents, having been the editor
of the 5&8 last year. He is
interested in examining long-
range trends, and claims to
have a “strong committment
to independent study and mar
jors."
Jeff Fox

Jeff Fox is interested in
expanding the introduction
courses so that they could
”Supplemental books could be
offer independent credit.
read and reported on, bene-
fitting the whole class." He
also believe independent pron
jects should be more struc»

Friday
September 10, 1971

Volume 80 Number 3

tured for the graduate school
candidates.

Chris Freeberg

Chris Freeberg believes SLU’
dents should be given the choi-
ce between credit/no credit
and traditional grades, or tea»
cher evaluation. He also star
ted: "I think that a quasi—
vocational program, such as
teacher certification, should
be strengthened or eliminated,
but not left in its present
limbo.”
Cole Hawkins

Cole Hawkins thinks indepen-
dent projects should be al-
lowed much more freedom in
design, presentation andnum~

See CANDIDATES Pageﬁ

EPC Duties, Issues Explained

by Anne Walter

Tuesday, September 14, the
student body will electa stue
dent to a position on the A11-
College Educational Policies
Committee. Asa sube commit:
tee of the College Executive
Council, this committee is
the highest source of formal
student opinion in curricular
and other academic decisions
at Grinnell. The committee
acts as a clearinghouse of
ideas and is responsible for
making recommendations in
these areas.

The AIIACollcgeEPCis com-
posed of a student and faculty
representative from each di-
vtsional EPC(Humanities,SOe
Gail Sciences, and Science),
the President of the college,
the Dean of the College, the
Dean of Administration, a re-
presentative from the Execu—
tive Council, the Chairman of
the Faculty, the SGA Presi-
dent and a member of CBS
(Concerned E ck Students.)
EPC is responsible for ap-
proving new courses and Chanr
ges in courses, and for re-
viewing changes in major re

quirements and other degree
requirements.

The committee is also char-
ged with the duty ofdiscussing
and preparing recommendat-
ions on matters of academic
relevance either on its own
initiative or as brought to it
by the divisional EPC’s. It
is under this latter function
that such important topics as
grading and course evaluation
are taken up by the commit-
tee.

The question of credit-fail
and the whole problem ofgra-
ding will be one of the pri-
mary issues for the EPC this
fall. It has become apparent
that the current credit-fail
option is unsatisfactory, es-
pecially in terms of the way
other schools look ata grade
of credit from Grinnell.

Oirrently a grade of D or
better in a course is recor-
ded as credit under the ore
ditrfail option. Consequently,
some other institutions tend
to look at a grade of credit
as a D. Since giving credit
for a D grade tends to jam

See EPC Page 7

H 20 Everywhere In Case Your Mattress leaks

At a rather drawnrout and
boring meeting which nearly
put faculty member David
Caulkins to sleep, the Social
Policy and Regulations Com-
mittee last Monday afternoon
dealt with the most urgent
campus crisis to date: the
matter of waterbeds in dormir,
tory rooms.

The purpose of the meeting
was toact on the recommendar
tions of the Committee onStu-
dent Services, which were
basically thattheuse ofwater-
beds be restricted to the base-
ments of dormitories,and that
anybody mught with one up-
stairs would bc fined $25 and
be made to move the thing.

in a 40*minute presentation
Dale Hawn explained in tecl‘r
ntcal terms the dangers of
having waterbeds in dorm
rooms. What it all boils down
to is that our dorms are too
old and too weak to support
the added weight for any per-
iod of time. There is also
the danger that, should some
leakage occur, the damage to
the structures would be con-
siderable. He recited seve-

ral past instances where, be
cause of leaky roofs and
waterfights, excessive water
throughout dormitory StruCLU’
res has caused the plaster
to fall off walls and ceilings.

The life of the meeting, how,
ever, was provided by student
Ed DeBus who, to prove a
point, showed up with nothing
less that-la waterbed, complete
with protective coverings and
portions of the frame Strut?
ture he built to hold the thing.
DeBus lectured the Committee
on the various safety features
of his waterbed, the protec-
tion against leaks, the one-
way valve, etc. Despite his
excellent presentation, how-
ever, the committee'sgeneral
consensus seemed to be that
most people would not have a
waterbed as sophisticated as
Ed's, and that it would be
very difficult to endorce re-
gulations requiring any safety
precautions.

After a few more minutes of
debate over details, the end
result was that the Committee
approved the Student Services
Committee’s recommendati-

(photo by Dan Henry)

A

“Rest on Neptune’s spirit, in peace and tranquility" seems,
to have been taken literally by this Grinnell student on Ed

DeBus’s outdoor Water bed ne

ons. Hall Judicial Councils
will be in charge of estab-
lishing any violation of the
rules, and the fines will be
collected through the Treae
surcr‘s office. Students who
wish to keep their waterbeds
are advised to switch rooms
with someone who lives in the
basement soon. The recom-
mendations do not become

ar Main Hall.

official until after approval
by President Leggett.

Waterbed fans, however, will
not let the matter be settled
at that. for with the lnCI‘eaS’
ing use of waterbeds on aim-
pus the college will surely
have to face further problems
concerning who will have pr-
iority in drawing into baser
merit I‘OOmS. SIC.

 

