 

September 28, 1990

Scarlel&Black

 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Krauss Misinformcd on Syria

To the editor,

I’d like to correct several errors
and historical misunderstandings
exhibited by Eric Krauss in his
edilorial on US relations with
Syria. I make no excuses for HaIas
al-Assad's humarlrights record,and
fingerpointing is ﬁne, butfallacious
history and holler-thanrthou
attitudes on the part of hypocrites
cannot go unchallenged.

Regarding the I-Iama massacre:
even ifwe acceptKrauss’ ﬁgure of
20,000 killed (most sources place
the numberat 10,000), itcan hardly
be said that me “whole population”
was slaughtered considering that in
1982, I-lamahad apopulation nearly

10 times that size.

Moreover, since Hama has
continued to grow, it is a far cry
from “literally wiped off the map.“
Admittedly, l-Iama is no longer
Syria’s fourth largest city, but it
lost that position to Latlakia several
yearsbeforethemassacreoccurred.

Finally, Hama can still be called
Syria's most beautiful city. I spent
a few days there this summer. The
famous centuries-old noria
waterwheels still turn, and a great
many ofthe oldbuildingsslill stand
alongside the new. The destruction
is still apparent, but Hama in no
way resembles “a huge expanse of
Steamroller ﬂattened concrete.“

In response to Krauss' assertion

that “the United States has.
historically affirmed its
determination to uphold human
rigth in all pans of the globe." I
would ask him to remember this
country’s unthinkable bombing of
Cambodia, and its, for all practical
purposes. uncritical suppon of the
governments of South Africa, Israel,
Guatemala and El Salvador. Even
a cursory review of history reveals
that turn Syria’s aid down. To
conclude, Bush administration
policy-makers aren‘t doing
anytllingnew. ltis nottheywhoare
“ignorant of...historic American
philosophy.“ It is Krauss.

Alexis Powell ’92

Letters Ignore South Africa's
Tribal Differences, Conﬂict

To the editor,

Recently the Scarlet and Black
has published a series of letters by
supporters of Nelson Mandela and
the ANC that present an unrealistic
portrait of the current situation in
South Africa. The assertions made
in these letters that South Africa is
in a state of civil war between a
white minority government and a
unified black nation supporting the
ANC. the SACP (South African
Communist Party) and the UDF
(United Democratic Front) is
patently false.

This simplistic view ignores the
vast tribal and political divisions
among South African blacks and
substitutes the Marxist socialist
viewsofrheANCandLheSACP for
lhetruepoliticalpelsuasionsofmost
black South Africans.

South Africa'SYAmillionblacks
aredividedintonineseparate,major
tribes. These tribes all have their
own distinct language and cultural
identity. Triballoyally remainsvery
strong throughout all of Africa and
forms the basis of the majority of
political organization on the
continent, In South Africa, most
political parties are constituted

Kiyan Clarifies Statements About

To the editor.

In a recent letter to your paper,
Tandeka Stanback and several
others characterized my views on
Nelson Mandela as “racist and
reactionaryr"Thisoutrageousattack
necessitates. at the very least. a
clariﬁcation of my poinL

My intention wasto question the
unqualified sainthood bestowed
upon Mandela by the American
public. When he, along with
Stanback, has gone on record as an
opponent of our system of
government. such supportbespeaks

along tribal or ethnic lines. The
National and Conservative parties
represent the Afrikaaners, the
LiberalPartyrepresentstthnglish,
Inkatha represents the Zulus and
the ANC represents the Xhosa.
The Zulus are the single largest
ethnic group in South Africa.
numbering almost seven million
people. Their tribal interests are
represented by the legislative
assembly and the chief minister

elected to the government of the
Zulu homeland of KwaZulu. Chief
Mangosuthu Buthelezi has
consistently been elected the chief
ministerowaaZulu byamajority
of the Zulu population since the
formation of KwaZulu in 1976.

In addition to his position as the
head administer of KwaZulu,
Buthelezi is the president of

see TRIBES page 10

Reactionary Label
Should Be Applied to All

To the editor,

It is interesting that the South
African students label the opinions
of Washburn, Pohl and Kiyan as
”reactionary," They go on to reveal
that their arguments were based on
“the propaganda of the monstrous
imperialist U.S. government and
its racist and bigoted agencies”
(words of the South African
students).

I think that is one of the must
reactionary statements I have read.
Those capilalistpigsi Dedicated to

a dangerous ignorance or
ambivalence in our political life
that must be challenged.

These reservations about the
objectofourpopularadulation need
not entail opposition to Mandela
and the ANC. LikealotofWestern-
ers,Iwillhavethatmuchlesstofeel
guilty about when apartheid is
wiped out; and Mandela seems to
be the one to do it. Mandela will
triumph and, quite frankly, I am
happy about that.

But if he intends to set up a
government that repudiates free
speech and political pluralism (his

squash the violent uprising of the
oppressed masses! While I am 100
percent for the liberation of black
South Africans from minority white
rule, it is very interesting to note
thaton this campus“reaclionary“ is
only a word associated with the
right. The sentence I just quoted
seemslikesomethingoutofl’tavda,
circa 1950. So called “liberal"
people must realize that if anyone
dare express an opinion contrary to
the leftist status quo (those fascists

see REACTIONARY page 10

recent defense of Kenya's
repressive government illustrates
his feelings in this regard). If he
shares the militant ideology of
Stanback which interprets the
world's problems in terms of an
apocalypticconflictbetwoenpeople
of color and the “monstrous
imperialist U.S. government" with
its “sham" democracy, then I am
afraid I will have to wilhhold my
suppon for his canonization.
Ihope that by the time Stanback
return to South Africa. they will
relenl a little of their entirely
negative assessment of the country

Scarlet&Blat:lt

New GLGA Name
Loses Sense of Pride

To the editor.

A recent change has occured on
campus, and few pcoplehave yet to
hearaboutit. TheGrinnellLesblan
and Gay Alliance has changed its
name. It is now the Grinnell
Community to End Homophobia

lfind it very difﬁcult to address
this issue because of my past
experience with GLGAI When I
ﬁrstarrivedatGrinnell,GLGA was
newly formed and struggling with
the past problems of the Grinnell
College Gay Community. Power
struggles and ideological debates
toreat the group's bonds and really
hurt other people's feelings. Since
that time the group dynamics have
been nothing near favorable, and I
have seen many good people be
excluded or exclude themselves
from the group, myself included
And [realize that dealing with the
rifts between gays, lesbians,
bisexuals and allies is by no means
easy.

I feel,‘ however, that the
negativity of the title of the newest
alliance rides too deeply on that
which is unpleasant about being

gay, and shines little light on what
I feel are more positive aspects. 1
am also concerned that the GCEI-I
will now be in charge of Pride
Week—will it now become Anlir
Homophobia Week? The particular
exclusion of any positive queer
nomenclature in the name also
greatly disturbs me and causes me
to question the extent to which the
present leaders are comfortable
expressing their sexuality.

Although I am not alone in my
concerns. I know that the gay
population of Grinncll College is
notstrong enough to supponanother
radically overt group. I had
envisioned aloud and proud group
called QUEERS. It would make no
excuses, not apologize for
momentary lapsesofqueer—egoism.
It would have a uniﬁed voice and
scream a lot It would suppon its
members and give up the greed for
power. [grieve over the loss ofour
Visibility. And I hope that the
incoming lesbians and gays can
somehow seek out the power in an
anti-group.

Shelly T. West ‘92

Violence Unacceptable
in Any Circumstance

To the editor,

Concerning the recent debate in
the pages of this paper about the
relative merits of Nelson Mandela
and his ANC. I would like to offer
that a campaign of violence and
terror against innocent targets is, in
all cases, an unacceptable course.
Neither the most impassioned
rhetoric, nor the most anguished
plea for freedom can justify the
bombing of schools, the killing of
children, and the wanton murder of
bystanders. ldon’tcare if the party
conccmedis lheANC,thePLO, the
IRA or the Contra rebels. Such
activities are unacceptable.

Perhaps I have merely been
duped into believing this by the
monstrous sham of Western
democracy. Sobeil. ltisanabsolute
that I insist upon, and it applies
everywhere in the world. lfcenain

Mandela

where they have received their
educations. Hopefully, they will
realize that the democracy which is
the very heart and soul of the
American experience is not, in fact,
a“sham,"butasctofprinciples that
we, in this country, have fought
long and hard to preserve and
expand. These are principles that
are,whether Stanback can admilit
or not, probably found among the
intellectual foundationsoflhcirown
struggleforselfrdelennlnationand
independence.

Ryo Klyan ‘91

Grinnell students (who are NOT
PARTICIPANTS in many ofthese
struggles they profess to under-
stand) would stop shouting revolu—
tionary slogans and chanting the
cliched mantras of social change
for a minute, they might hear their
own brains work. They might hear
common sense speaking in ahoarse
whisper. Or at least their damned
consciences.

Chris Fletcher, ‘93

Washburn
Attacks
Castro
Supporters

To the editor.

l have something to say to the 10
students who rallial around Nelson
Mandela and his ANC:

That you simultaneously pine
for “freedom" and “embrace Fidel
Castro" struck me as some sort of
demented joke. You align
yourselves with a man who has
imprisoned thousands for political
reasons, is immersed in the drug
trade and runsaconcenlrationcamp
on the Isle of Pines, Embracing
Castro is an affront to decency,

Unless the an|i~apartheid
movement distances itself from
murdering scum like Castro, it will
never have my sympathy.

Mlchael S. Washburn ‘93

 

