 

The Grinnell
Pink and Gray

CCPS

Etna
Aprﬂ 1, 1972

Vdunw 80 Nunmer25

CAMPUS CLEAN

Did Drugs Disappear?

‘ KDIC STATION MANAGER JOHN SEELEY SURVE S THE WRECKAGE

Sparks Wreck(s) KDIC

by Al Thumbs
The transmitter at KDIC
exploded yesterday after-
noon, leaving the station
offices atop Darby Gym-
nasium in ruins. No one was
seriously injured, although
Grinnell ﬁremen battled
the blaze for three hours
before extinguishing the

Secrecy
Deshoys

CouncH

by John M. Wiseguy
After a six»hour secret
debate during its regular
Wednesday meeting this
week, the Executive Coun-
cil decided to permanently
disband because no way
could be found to keep the
identities of the members
secret from one another.
Debate began when

shocked members of the

Council learned that the
Campus Memo had been
publishing abridged min»
utes of their weekly meete
ings.

“Executive Council bus»
iness must be kept scrupu—
lougly secret,” one out-
raged member stated. "If
the campus community re-
ally understood what we
were doing, the results
could be absolutely disas-
trous,”

Council members spent
the next three hours de-
bating about exactly what
they were doing, but the
impossibility of this task
was increasingly apparent
to all those present
The editors of Campus
Memo, a radical under»
ground weekly primarily
noted for coming out a day
late, could not be reached
for comment.

flames.

KDIC Chief Engineer Bob
Sparks, who was in the
station at the time, told
the 5&8 later that "l was
just sitting there, playing
around with the switches,
when sparks started jump-
ing from an open socket."
Recalling the story of the
Dutch boy and the dike,
Sparks immediately stuck
his thumb in the socket, to
no avail. “One second la—
ter the whole thing blew,”
Sparks recalled.

He suffered severe burns

Agnew

by R. E. Publican

Vice-President Spiro T.
“Ted” Agnew has been in-
vited to speak at Grinnell
as a Politician-ln-Resi~
dence, PPPE chairman Dr.
David Jordan announced
yesterday.

Agnew, styled ”one of the
greatest Vice-Presidents

As Politician—ln-Resi-
dence, Agnew will have din»
ner with many major cam»
pus organizations; how»
ever, no meeting with CBS
has been planned.

The PPPE Committee’s
surprise announcement
yesterday sent administra-
tors scurrying, as the
possibility of a special con-
vocation to award the Vice-
President an honorary de—
gree was considered, and
then discarded.
of the Seventies” by Dr.
Jordan, recently began a
series of campus visits
with an appearance at
Drake University in Des
anes.

Agnew is scheduled to
speak in Darby Gymnasium
on the topic “Youth In Pol-
itics: The Fewer The Bet-
ter”.

“We thought about it, but
were hesitant," Dean Wal-

and face lacerations and is
now recuperating in the
Grinnell hospital.

The Anthropology depart»
ment plans to excavate
Ward field during the sum-
mer, in attempt to locate
the various bits and pieces
of the station equipment
which are now buried in the
ground. The department,
according to Mr. Luebben,
hopes to be able to piece
together an approximate
picture of the way the sta—
tion looked before the ex—
plosion.

To Visﬂ

do Walker told the 5&8.
“The last government of—
ficial we gave an honorary
degree to became director
of Selective Service. Any
way, no one could think of
any grounds for awarding
a degree.”

Said Agnew of his impend-
ing Visit to the College: “I
am looking forward to
meeting with the fine Re»
publican young people who
go to school at Grumion
College in rural Iowa.”

A recent survey of the
Grinnell College campus by
local police and federal
narcotics investigators has
turned up no sign of atraf»
tie in drugs here, the 5&3
has learned.

In a joint announcement
yesterday, Police Chief
Pill Beaters and Ben Z.
Dreen, an investigator for
the Bureau of Narcotics,
outlined the highlights of
the investigation they have
directed here during the
last few months. The in»
vestigation involved the use
of Several undercover in»
vestigators, who posed as
students.

“We started at the top,"
said Beaters. “We fig-
ured that if anything was
going on certain key peo»
ple would know.” From
then on the investigation
apparently went downhill.

One undercover agent,

who infiltrated the College
Relations office, repor»

r/

deafened by the racket

investigators at one point
thought that dogs trained to
detect suspicious smells
were on to something. Se—
veral minutes later they
were found wretching in the
kitchen of the Quad dining
hall. They were immedi»
ately withdrawn from the
case and from Saga gar—

- bage.

Early in December three

' undercover agents raided

BEN Z. DREEN

tedly examined 435 press
releases without discover—
ing anything other than the
fact that he was getting a
splitting headache.
Another agent, posing as
a cockroach, crawled into
the heating ducts of Norris

, Hall. During his short stay,

he was chased by four large
mice and permanently

Pioneers Go Pro

by Wrong Mudbin

Bill Sharman, coach of
the Los Angeles Lakers,
has approached coach Boyd
of Grinnell with the sugges»
tion that the Grinnell Pio-
neers basketball team be
recruited to play with the
pros. “Grinnell has such
an outstanding group of
players,” Sharman said in
an 5&5 interview, “that we
were thinking of just trans-
porting the team wholesale
to Los. Angeles to play
against professional com-
petition.”

Bob Burnett, ‘Sharman
commented, should have no
trouble filling the role va»
cated by Wilt Chamberlain,
and Dennis Moss will no
doubt pre-empt Jerry West
in the guard position.

"The team works smooth-
ly together and has ob-
viously had the benefits of

ONLY492
NEWSPAPERS
HAVE WON MORE

PULHZERPRmEs
THAN

The Grinnell
Scarlet and Black

Our congratulations to them.

. "c______s/

a great recruiting program
and outstanding coaching,”
Sharman said. “Team
morale seems especially
strong, as the players
never let up but put forth
their best efforts game af»
ter game despite their
monotonous winning
streak.”

Coach Boyd was not im»
mediately available for
comment, although several
astonished joggers claimv

d

that he was doing cart»
wheels across the Physical
Education Complex after
being informed that the
team may leave the college.

Elsewhere on the sports
scene, the Grinnell base—
ball team seems to be get»
ting off to a fine start in
spring training, according
to sources close to the
coaching staff. A series
of secret workouts has
alerted observors to the
possibility ,that the team
may be digging up some
secret play to surprise this
season’s opponents. Team
players, however, deny the
rumor.

“We’re just trying to
learn how to play base-
ball,” one of the pitchers
observed. And the team
coach noted, “If that
doesn’t work, we’ll try
something else."

a smoke»filled room in
Burling basement just be-
fore midnight. The Execu-
tive Council members pre-
sent voted, after a ten min-
ute discussion, that the ag—
ents should leave immedi»
ately or face expulsion.

Two inexperienced agents
almost blew their cover
when they demonstrated
genuine enthusiasm for the
recent SGA constitutional
referendum.

Posing as a sociology stu»
dent, one investigator at~
tempted to conduct a survey
through the mail boxes. The
questionairre. informed
students that their respon-
ses could be used against
them in a court of law and
asked them to sign the com»
pleted questionairre.

There was no sign of the
questionairres until an-
other agent discovered the
remains of 1250 blank
questionairres beside the
paper shredder in the com-
puter center. He questioned
a suspicious»looking stu»
dent who was sorting
through the pile ofshredded
paper, and discovered that
he was only an StoB repor—
ter on an important assign-
ment.

Late in November, agents
took a short vacation for
the holidays. Dreen and
Beaters said they checked
when the investigation rea
sumed and discovered that
the only things they had
missed were some meet»
ings to discuss “academic
pressure, whatever that
is.”

The last attempt to dis—
cover any drug operation
here was conducted per»
sonally by Breen, who
dressed himself as a
respectable businessman
and asked a random sample
of 300 students whether
they or anyone they knew
used or sold drugs

Breen made the decision
to withdraw from the case.
He told the 58:13 that he is
convinced that the thorough
investigators working for
him would have uncovered
anything by now if it could
be uncovered. He plans to
recommend that his super-
ior in Washington send a
letter of commendation to
the college on behalf of the
bureau.

 

