Singing [or Her
Schooling

. . . Lauvela Henin was the lea-
tuied entertainer at a charm ball
given by N. Y. A. students of
Geotgia State College icy
Women,

Miniature Ranges

. . .am used by North Carolina
State College shaipshooteu to
test their skill. With this new
set-up developed by U. S.
Anny officers, an outdoor range
is approximated by an elaborate
color painting of an outdoor
scene, which sevves as the tavget.
Divectly above it is an in2x~
pensive black and white izpvo<
duction. Specially adjusted ah
tillery sights on the iegulation
auny vines ptzimil maiksmen to
aim at the taiget below, stiike a
conesponding spot on the inex-
pensive one above. The vange is
anlv 50 yards long.

 

ITâ€™S'GREAT
FUN T O SMOKE
CAMELS. I LIKE
THEIR MILDNESS
AND DELICATE
TASTE

 

 

 

for smoking pleasure at its best__Camels

 

 

