Pei

by Ann Cassel

Are you rebelling against
the bureaucratic administra-
tion at Grinnell College? Are
you fighting the system 7 Lash-
ing out at injustice? Do you
have a pet inyour dorm room?

An increasing number of
Grinnell College students
seem to be using this method
of protest this year. Thenum—
her of pets on campus is in'
creasing every day. Variety
and ingenuity in pets seems to
be the keytword this year:
besides the common types of
pets such as dogs and cats,
strange and sundry species of
animals are popping up all

Hiking And Biking
On Oct. 23

Get your tires filledand your
handlebars polished! Hikeand
Bike day is only eight days
away; if the weather permits,
bicycling fans are invited to
turn out in strength on Oc<
tober 23.

Bicyclers will meet at Grin-
nell's own Central Park at
1:00 that afternoon. Ken Ch-
ristiansen of the Grinnellbitr
logy department will give a
short address, which will be
followed by a procession of
bicycles around the block, to
Lake Nyanza, and back.

Obey Traltic laws

Chief Peters urges all Sili‘
dents to obey traffic laws In
Grinnell. whether they be in
automobiles or on bicycles.
Bycycles should have lights
if they are to be used after
dark, and bicyclists are ex
cbrk, and bicyclists are ex-
pected to obey the city 'spark-
ing regulations.

Snider Appeal To
Be In Near Future

The All campus Judicial
Council met last night to or-
ganize themselves and ar-
range to hear an appeal from
Steve Snider who was con-
victed last week on several
counts by the Main Hall Coun-
cil.

The hearing is likely to be

scheduled during the next two
weeks.

.mgaoovtsﬁ°iﬂo

over campus. Parakeets, guit
nca pigs, goerhels, fish, boa
constrictors, and raccoons
are just a few of the more
common ones.

Aruling was made lasr year
that pets, especially those as
large as cats and dogs, are
prohibited in the dorm rooms
for a number of reasons, inn
cluding health. According to
Shelley Floyd, concern about
the increasing number of pets
on campus hasbeen expressed
by Ralph Pomerenk, who is in
charge of student housing.
There has been talk of changt
mg the existing rule because
some students are against it;
yet Others feel that it should
remain intact.

"I've Stepped on more ani-
mals around here. There was
a dog over on..." This coin-
plaint, accompanied by a suds
den screech of a cat is not an
uncommon occurrance anyt
where on campus, revea lingan
important point: Perhaps the
primary injustice in the pet
situation on campus is to the
pet itself. A student who just

Parade Cousing Pro“ lems

. I”.

can’t resist a puppy in the
store may be tempted to throw
it out the window after the
"cute little thing"hasdefcca-
ted all over the dorm roomand
whined unmercifully from 2:00
A.M. to 5:00 A.M. on Tuesday
morning.

The same animal may be
denied proper care and loveat
times of extreme pressure for
its owner, such as during
exams or when three papers
are due on the same day. Then
what happens when the student
takes off hitching around the
country during the three
months in the summer? Often
the irresistable muttbccomes
the property of the humane
society and either a newhomc
must be found or...\vcll, you
lmow.

This story is, of course, not
the fate of all pets on campus
and, hopefully, not of many"
but it has been known to occur.
The welfare of the animal
should be considered in a de
cision about whether to diet
obey this particular rule. Can
you be fair to your pet?

Rep.’ Strand Details Past

by Lynn Ogawa

\ grocer horc for 33 years
before entering politics, Rep.
Clair Strand of thc Iowa House
has had intimate contact With
Grinnell students. His recol-
lections provide a fascinating
look into early Grinncll life.
Representative Strand came

Rep, Claire Strand tells 5&8
reporter about his life in Grin-

neil.

Outline 583 Past, Responsibilities

by Gilbert Fried

The first student publication
in Grinnell College’s history
was the “News Letter",which
made its first appearance on
August 23, 1877. It originally
was a four-page, twelver
column tabloid containing
notes on faculty and alumni
and news of the college. It was
at first a weekly paper, but
was published three times a
month in 1882; later itbecame
a monthly. The merger of the
"News Letter" and another
obscure publication called
"Pulse" in 1889 led to the
formation of a publication
which first appeared on Sep~
tember 20, 1890 called
“Unit", which was a fort-
nightly effort that contained
two columns.

The ”Scarlet and Black"
first appeared as a bi-weekly
newspaper on September 12,
1894, and it became a weekly
publication a year later. It
usually carried four pages
(four columns to a page) and
had no banner or sensational
headlines.
Today the “Scarlet and
Black" is a semi-selfsup-
porting weekly newspaper
edited by Steve GrowandMark

You are invited to come out to

ll©WlNl Aldo C©llDlNTllW Q

and browse through a most interesting selection

g

the world.

2020 Fourth Ave.

of jewelry, tote bags, and gifts from around

(Near ea st end.)

Open Monday thru Saturday, 9:30 , 5:30.
o .an o O‘we‘v

 

POYNTER’S

FOURTH AVENUE FASHIONS

‘wontu’s FAll
SPORTSWEAR
REDUCED

 

OCtober 15, 1971

The Scarlet and Block

Sableman, assisted by Don
Dagenais (copy) and Mark
Hanisch (layout). The busr
ness manager is Al Schoene,
who is assisted by Jim Ame
merman (circulation) andSkip
Tredway (advertising). '

Income for the ”Scarlet and
Black" comes from advern
tisements placed by local bus»
inesses and funds allocated
from the Student Government
Association budget.

Published under the auspices
of the Grinnell Committee on
Student Publications and
Radio, "Scarlet and 3lack"
is printed by the Montezuma
“Republican" every Friday
and distributed to the student
body that afternoon.

The publications office of
the ”Scarlet and Black” is
located in Room MS of the
Forum.

The production of the “Scar-
let and Black" is supervised
by the Committee on Student
Publications and Radio, which
consists of a faculty chairman
plus two other elected faculty
members, three students
nominated by the Student
Government AssOciation, and
the Treasurer of the College
(or his designated representar

Pregnant?
Need Help?

w. Wilt hell: any woman an
ul race religion. in a

merely help woman unuln mum
Doclars lot lbolllons. ll this n

wnal they «me. Plus! do nol
delay. an only abollmu Is my.

Cal

312 922 777

mm... mm...
A l I: Y

E AM-10 PM—7 DAYS
A Non-PROF” omimzmon

rive)
Slonal
Officio.

Duties of this committee inr
clude the operation of the col-
lege newspaper and its pro-
duction, the appointment of
editors to the staff and the
determination of their salar-
ies, determination ofthe scope
of the ”Scarlet and Black"
and approval ofthe operational
decisions of the editors (such
as where, when, and how often
the paper is published), the
removal of incompetent staff
members, and the recom-
mendations for removal of
professional advisors.

Present members
Committee are:

Mr. James Hottois

Mr. James Wyly

‘Xndrca Frey

Bill Thomas

Merry Wiesner,
and Mr. Donald Lambie, Mr.
Herbert Prescott, and Mr.
William Vanderpool, exV
officio.

WANT ADS
& PERSONALS

I NEED HELPlll Envelope
SiuffeI‘S”Parl'i1me. $25 guar-
anteed for every 100 envelopes
you Stuff. All postage pre—paid.
Send stamped, self-addressed
envelope, plus $1.00 for regisn
tratlon and handling to: Allen
King Corp; RC. Box 6525, PGH
Penna; 15212

FOR RENT: 4 room and bath
downstairs apartment. On the
corner of let Ave. “Real nice
place for 4peoplc.” $50 per
person per month. Available
immediately, Cal! 23641172
till 5:3U. After , 236—4312.

and two facul lIy profes»
advisers sitting exr

of the

to Griiinell after high school
from Gilman, a little town
eight miles north of here, to
start a groecry store.

He started out in 1930 as a
clerk in whatis now the United
Food Center, and eventually
worked his way up to owner.

“Never a day passed without
at lcastahundredpeople drop-
ping by,” said Rep. Strand.

The grocery business at that
time was very diffErent from
the grocery business today.
The different items were for
sale in bulk and "we packed
them ourselves. Now every
thing comes prepared and
packaged,” said he.

Rep. Strand would watch stun
dents from the window of his
store carrying their laundry
bags to the post office. It was
a common occurrence for stu-
dents to send their clothes
home weekly to be laundered,
as no laundry facilities existed
in the college or town inthose
days.

The post office offered spe-
cial ratesandwhen the laundry
returned, there was oftena
”care package" tucked inside.

A laundromat was obviously
in need, and Rep. Strand
quickly obliged by opening the
first laundromat in 1957, lo—
cated on 4th Avenue where
Hansen studio is presently
situated. The Grinnell Laun-
dromat is now neXt to the Uni-
ted Food Center and still oper-
ated by the Strands.

Grinnell today has more in-
dustry and people than it did
then, according to Strand, but
the type of people living here
are still the same. “Grinnell
has always been Wonderful in
that way," he said.

in 1963, Rep. Strand retired
from the grocery business. He
and his wife planned to travel
but hrs-became involved in local
and state politics instead.

He is presently serving his
third term and is amember of
the House Social Services,

County Government, Iowa Dec
velopment, and HigherEduca'
tion Committees, as well as
the Commission on Aging.

 

for all your
typewriter and

stationery supplies

GRINNEll
orncrsumv

GRINNELL, IOWA
Across from the Post Office

 

 

 

1410 KC

 

GOOD LUCK, PIONEERS!

1410KC

@lllll]

8le - 9:UU a.m.

listen to the "Monday Morning Quarterback”

WITH COACH EDD BOWERS AND PIONEER PLAYERS

 

 

 

