pig}; '2 ,

talk Discusses Mid-East Plight

(continued from page l)
here is one for survival of
peoples. Both sides rightly
consider land essential to
their personal survival, and
make it a non-negotiable de
mand. There just is not en-
ough land for both peoples,
when one considers the culr
rural and religious animosi~
ties that have fulminated for
hundreds of years. Even if
both peoples could exist phy-
sically in the samearaa, their
hatred for one anather would
not permit it. :

Jewish himself, Falk an id
entify with the plight of the
IStraelis. Considering the
historical tradition of perse-
cution in other lands, he feels
that the existence of a sover-
eign Jewish state is absolute
1y essential to the survival of
the Jewish peoples. And yet
he realizes the plight of the
Arabs of the region, having
been displaced from their
farms and homes for no fault
of their own. Both sides are
right because they both have
the right to survive, yet both
are wrong in refusing to ack-
nowledge the other's rights.

The second lecture-rPropo-
sals for Resolving the Middle
East Crisi5rrand an informal
discussion the following mor-
ning dealt with the specifics
of handling this problem. To
begin, Falk listed three levels
of conﬂict is the area: the
local level ofPalestinian Arab
refugees vs. the Israeli peo-
ple, the governmental level of
the Arab world vs. the Jewish
world in the Middle East, and
finally, the international level
of the U.S. vs. the Soviet Un'
ion. A solution of the conﬂict
would obviously have to deal
with all three levels. _

Asl'Falk sees it, militarily,
the situation is impossible.
Neither side possesses the
capacity to completely con»
quer the other the other with-
out destroying itself in the
pprocess. Likewise, compro
mise is impossible, due to
the keyed-up hatred between
the sides. Finally, continuar
tion of the status one is im-
possible, ow1ng to the indus-
trial growth ofthe Arabworld,
which will almost certainly
result in the creation of a

Students

by Michael Berke

Grinnell students wishing to
do volunteer work with child-
ren in the communityare faced
with a large number of often
confusing alternatives. They
may work in the college pre-
school, either as assistants to
the teacher in the morning or
as babysitters in the after-
noon, or they may work ina
day care center for children
of working mothers.

Students interested in closer
contacts with children can
work at Uncle Sam‘s Club, a
recreational center for town
children or become a bigbroV
ther or big sister to a childin
need of an adult’s attention.
Finally, several Grinnell SEU"
dents work with mentally re-
tarded children in Cub Scout
and Campfire Girl troops.

Grinnell College Preschool
serves as a laboratory for
students in Professor John
Morris' Developmental Psy-
chology course. Mrs. Jeanne
Liggett, wife of Education
Professor Donald Liggett, is
a fillrtim'e paid teacher in
charge of the school, which
meets from 9:30 to 11:30 each
morning. Twenty'nine three
and four-yearrolds are en-
rolled in the school, but only

modern, mechanized army
within a few years, which will
upset the distribution ofpower
and will likelyprecipitate war.

Clearly, this is a precarious
situation which may very well
lead to the extermination of
one or bothactors. Onlya lim-
ited number of actions can be
taken to try to resolve the
conflict. These would involve
attempts to somehow convince
the sides to soften on some of
their "non-negotiable” de-
mands. Israeli cession ofcap-
cured West Bank territories
in exchange for a continued
presence on the Suez and the
affirmed perpetuation of the
sovereign state of Israel is
considered to be one such
reasonable solution by some
experts.

Falk feels that the question
of land is the pivotal one in
seeking any kind ofresolution.
NegOtiation of conquered tel.“
ritories is thus an essential
step toward a final solution.
Along with this must go ef-
forts to keep meddling super
powers from playing geopo-
litical power games in the
area. This means keeping the
U.S. and Russia out of the
immediate picture.

If Arab and Israeli hatred
an be assuaged through an
equitable negotiation of ter-
ritories, and if the fears of
both sides can be mollified
before Arab militarypOtential
increases to the flashpoint, a
solution might come about.
Unfortunately, the tensions
seem to be increasingwith the
passage of time. There are
rumors of Israeli nuclear po-
tential, which would complir
ate the situation to the nth
degree.

Modifying the passions of
foreign peoples has been his
torically next to impossible.
Perhaps the only body capable
of such a feat would be the
United Nations. To date, the
effectiveness of this body in
such areas seems to have def
creased Over time. In other
words, things look pretty
grim. Falk shares the pessi-
mism of most ofthe diploma-
tic community in predicting
hard times and misfortunes
ahead for this part of the
world.

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

Prat. Richard Folk
(Photo by Barry Zigas)

February 26, 1971

Plan War Activities

Despite Monday night's
snowstorm, a meeting to or'
ganize spring anti-waractivi-
ties drew 40 people. Andy
Loewi reported on plans being
made by such groups asSANE,
NSA, and the People's Coali»
tion for Peace and Justice to
give a general view of what
may happen.

Immediate action suggested
by Loewi was to have the
People‘s Treaty for Peace in
Viet Nam signed by Grinnell
students. Loewi called for a
steering committee toaccom-
plish this and to plan subser
quent activities. Ellen Yack-
nin, Paul Lenart, Brad Vaza-
les, and Erik Graff form that
committee.

Participants seemed convin'
ced of the need to operate in
conjunction with townspeople.
There was an emphasis on
"educating people about this

kind of war in general, not
merely finding dramatic ways
to end this war," as one per
son said. Terry Clifford dise
closed that eight college wo-
men have been developed con-
tacts with such local groups
as the League of Women Vot-
ers, the Country Club and
Farm Wives. A joint town-
college antivwar statement
might be created out of such
connections.

The tone of the meeting was
optimistic; Loewi mentioned
that even Bess Myerson has
recently gave "an incredibly
hardehitting anti»war spr
each." However, no one was
making predictions or serir
ously discussing tactics. The
meeting was embryonic. As
Loewi said, ”I don‘t want to
hassle about what people want
to do. I just think we should
get some people together to
do something."

Magee Asks For New Approaches

(continued from page I)
couragement that ”basicpliilr
osophic questions" of acader
mic restrucmring might well
be considered at this time that
President Leggett introduced
Magee’s "sociological analy"
sis" of Grinnell.

Magee prefaced his horatory
lecture with the assurance
that his remarks were indeed
called for (hard times to
come), and that they would be
general and theoretical; not
to be taken personally.

First a little historical re-
view was in order. Seems that
back in the 50's there was a
strong, domine ringpresident
here, and that in response to
his actions and his departure,
there has been much faculty
arrogation of administrative
prerogative, and a general
climate of distrust, char-
acterized by a proliferation
of standing committees and
an emphasis on particularlsr
tic debate on any question
which reaches the committee
of the whole. This last, the
“what if" syndrome, also
known as the ”parade of ulll’
mate horrors”, has become
valued for its own sake in
spite of its tendency to cripr
ple any sort of enabling leg-

Do Volunteer Work

sixteen attend class on any
one day.

Over twenty students from
the Developmental Psychology
course help supervise the
children and work on course
projects such as studies of
cognitive development and
children's art.

According to Mrs. Liggett,
more volunteers are needed,
especially to work from 10:30
to 11:30. They are asked to
commit themselves to a regu-
lar time eachweek by contact»
ing her at the Preschool.

According to Mrs. Liggett,
the approximately twenty vole
unteers help supervise the
children, draw for them, play
instruments, sing and help
guide field trips. The pre
school needs college students,
she says, to involve children
in small groups and give them
individual attention.

The preschool gives children
an opportunity to developsoc
ial skills, gives them an op-
portunity for creative expres
sion and makes sure children
have language skills and knOWr
ledge of thealphabettobe pre-
pared for kindergarten.

Parents’ Co-op

Grinnell students work as
volunteers at the parents’

cerop, a cooperative baby-
sitting service which meets
at the college preschool four
afternoons a week. The corop
couldn‘t operate without stud*
ent volunteers, according to
Mrs. Sue Hottois (Wife of
Political Science instructor
James Hettois), who serves
as coordinator.

Sophomores Sherry Mayrent
and Jenny Scoon and twenty to
twentyrfive college students
work as volunteers with fifteen
mothers who volunteer to work
as babysitters in return for
free babysitting.

Two thirds of the mothers
are faculty wives, but Mrs.
Hottois says that she wants to
make the co-op a community
project.

The coop was started in
September, 1969, andmodeled
after a similar co~op in Iowa

(continued to page 7)

Road Service

6%

leo’s Standard

236- 7160
SIXTH & WEST

islation and to slow the “free
flow of information" to a
brackish trickle.

When petty issues are thus
raised to the level of ultimate
concerns, what results is the
reinforcement of pettifogging
and the institutionalizing of
“busibodiness”. When every
body considers himself suf-
ficiently expert (as a profes
sional) to be consulted on any
and all issues, procedure is
stiﬂed. Ad Hoc committees
spring up and create intrigue
and disunity, and the faculty
can only save itself from drr
owning by resorting to a kind
of gentlemanly dillitantism.

If the administration coop-
erates with such a system,
what developes is a "buddy
system" in which inadequate
separation of the concerns
and efforts of faculty and ad-
ministration results in weak
ness and ineffectuality on both
parts, and the termination of
any real exchange ofideasand
advice.

Well, it‘s all happened here.
The Executive Council; ac-
cording to Magee, lacks any
conception of its function. It
has no priorities and no con-
trol over its own agenda. It
lacks oversight and has no.
idea what a real agenda is.

Magee went on to pillory the
counterproductive autonomy
of faculty groups, and the ex-
cessive proceduralism and
formalism which, along with
the "what if" syndrome, lend
such a tacky quality to most
faculty debate. Amazingly en-
ough, parliamentary procedr
ure is designed to speed and
clarify, not retard and obfusr
cate debate.

ll kinds at
delicious
pizzas or
any
combinmlon

Magee then suggesteda whole
new approach to the business
of decision~making and re-
form. First would be a con-
cession on the part of the face
ulty that all that it isequipped
to give the President is ad-
vice, and that its legislation
should be imaginative and
broadly enabling (not the re
verse), and that, as a good
smrt, it ought to eliminate
all standing committees (ex—
cept for admissions and aca-
demic standing). Further, die
faculty should take care not
to involve itself in non~acar
demic issues.

Magee suggested two models
for a new, improvedExecutive
Council, one pretty much the
creature described in Pres.
Leggett's proposal, the other
considerably smaller.

Concerning student power,
he suggested that we need to
avoid the mystique of formal
ism and vote- counting (a fac-
ulty disease), andthatwe ought
to develop sufficient moxie to
recognize our victories as
well as our defeats. He pres
dicted that a system of clear
responsibility wouldmake this
possible.

In concluding, he allowed
that, though structural change
is inevitable, the details of
the structure are irrelevant;
that what wants changingis
the attitude of the participants.
While the constituencies of
the various opposinginterests
here are different, the differ
ences ought to be limited by
a common concern; the com~
monality of which we would
better recognize if we all
knew just who we are.

Wide variety
of
sandwiches
& burgers

236-6222 AHRVANO’S 236-6222

 

/———\

KEEP YOUR STRENGTH UP THROUGH MIDvSEM
WITH SOME OF OUR FINE PASTRIES.

DANISH MAID BAKERY

8 I 8 Fourth Avenue

 

