\
‘ May 14. 1971

"’THES’CARLET‘ AND BLA‘CK

P.E. Complex Nears Completion

by Bill Knecht

After nearly fifteen months
of delay, the new Physical
Edutation Complex is Enters
ing the final stages of come
pletion.

Begun in the fall of 1968,
the Complex was to be com-
pleted by June I, 1970 at an
original projected cost of$2.4
million, including construc
tion costs, architects’ fees
and all athletic equipment to
be used in the new building.
Gilbert Builders, Inc. of Iowa
Falls was the prime contrac—
tor hired, with a number of
smaller firms handling spe-
cialized jobs in the project.

The project was to be finan-
ced through federal grants
totalling $943,000 and loans
totalling $840,000. An addir
tional $714,000 was to be rai-
sed by the College through
loans and gifts.

in the ensuing months the
project was plagued bya num-
ber of delays. Bad weather
hampered external construc*
tion and at one point caused
the hole dug for the swimming
pool to collapse. A sub-cons
tractor assigned to supply
bricks failed to meet its obli-
gations and a new supplier
had to be found. Moisture in
the proposed gym floor area
raised doubts as to whether
or not the Tartan track sur-
bce could be bonded to the
concrete subtfloor. Lengthy
discussions with the archir

tects finally produced a deci~ _

sion to put in a drainage sys

tem before the floor was laid.

Finally, discussion over the
availability of natural gas for
heating caused the heating
system to be redesigned to
operate from the centralheat-
ing plant rather than indepen-
dently of it, as was originally
planned.

The result of these unfore-
seen factors was a time delay
of over a year and a projected
cost overrun of about $200,
000. During the delay periods
the College was forced to take
out private high- interest loans
to replace the federal loans,
which would not be granted
until 80% of the facility had
been completed. The added
cost of interest plus the extra
architect and construction
fees produced the overrun,
which, although seemingly
substantial, is actually only
about 7.7% of the total cost.
This is considerably better
than what federal and state
governments are accustomed
to doing.

The new Complex will con-
sist of three units, with a
total of over 83,000 square
feet offloor space--huge come
pared to the old buildings.
The Field House unit will be
rectangular 297' x 120' with
a 25' ceiling, and will contain
two separate gymnasium spa-
ces, each with 2 basketbal'
courts, 2 tennis courts, Zvol-
leyball courts and 8 badminr
ton courts. Separating the two
spaces will bean "islandgym-
nasium" with 4 handball/

Hikers Stop In Grinnell ,

by Rich Hyde
About four o’clock Sunday
afternoon, a group of _six

marchers from IoWalCity, plus’

an assert-them of Grinnell re-
sidents who joined them at
points along highway 6, troop-
ed into St. Paul’s Episcopal

Church across from the Cole
lege. In these days of brain-
wracking and paperwriting in
preparation for finals and the
deadline for written work,
their arrival raised little stir
among the college community.

However, it was not really
intended to. The six people
were marching to Des Moines
to dramatize their opposition
to the draft and to talk with
residents along the way, in~
forming them of steps that
‘ could be taken toend the draft.

Upon their arrival in Des
Moines, the marchers hope to
talk to Senators Hughes and
Miller or their representa-
tives. They hope to convince
the Senators to vote against
the draft when it comes up for
renewal this session of Cone
gress.

After a dinner graciously
provided by Mrs. Joseph Wall,
the marchers met with ap~
proximately eight or ten
townspeople and a few college
students at Veterans Mem»
orial Center downtown. The

discussion, according to studs
ents who attended, was direct
and m, 'ngful; and spriteY of

h the to'vmspeoplle' 'showed signs

of changin‘g'thelr minds about
the draft.

The marchers spent the night
at St. Paul's Church, and pu-
shed on to Newton, their next
stoppingrplace, early Monday
morning.

purpose gym area for dancing,
archery and gymnastics. Cir-
cling the entire Field House
on the inside perimeter will
be a 2207yard track with an
SO‘yard straightaway, broad
jump, high jump and pole
vault pits.

The Swimming Pool unit Will
be the only one of its kind on
an American campus. Cruci-
form in shape, fifty yards by
fifty meters, the Pool will be
dividable into four separate
swimming areas. The tremen‘
dous height of the ceiling plus
the addition of accoustic tile
will provide relatively effec-
tive noise separation between
the parts, allowing four dife
ferent types of activities to
go on simultaneously without
interference. Because the
Pool will be located cross—
ways in‘a square room, large

(continued to page 7)

A medieval

physiml education complex (or is it7)

rises on central campus, surrounded by industrious

Grinnell students .

(Photo by Bob Bower)

JC labowit: Has Reached A Turning Point

by J. C. Labowitz

New trees are sprouting over
hither and yon, while the pin-
balls machines continue their
engorgement of the heartsand
coins of men. The campus
trees are blooming to put the
ridiculous weather to shame,
and if it wasn't for the all
nighter I have got to pull, it
would be pretty idyllic around
here.

But there are some thoughts
that temper the peace and
serenity. One is that I really
don't need motorcycles tears
ing over Mac Field. But far
more important is that reali-
zation that i am going to col-
lege classes for the last time
,_ not just for the summer,
but the last ones of fouryears
worth of college. It is hard to
imagine that the trek that
started with Mrs. Murphy's
Nursery School in 1953 (which
is hard to imagine in itself) is
about to finish for me. The
question continues to rattle
around .. OK, what can Ido

with this education? We find
different things to do ~- some
talk about sailingboatsaround
the world, others (because of
their particular births) have
t0\decide between Ft. Leonard
Wood and COS. Some of us
have gone broke trying to in-
vest in grad school applioar
tion fees, which are havinga
particularly low rate ofreturn
this year, while others cons
sider jobs, and everyone else
tries not to worry about the
whole thing too much.

What is equally striking is
that fact that the existence
that we have known for four
years is about to be dispersed.
The buildings willstillbe here
next year, but many of the
friends won’t be, and they are
what" really "made" ’Grinnell.
Meeting them away from here
will be strange, becausethere
will always be the context of
Grinnell. Nostalgic that Iarn,
I get a strong reaction just
walking around and seeing the
people I have known in one

Council’s Reorganilation Plans Amended

by Greg Butcher

The faculty ran through a
number of amendments to the
Executive Council's plan for
faculty reorganization at
Monday‘s meetingamid objec-
tions from John Worley and
Gregory Guroff that the num-
ber of members present (only
44) did not constitute a large
enough body to provide a
working consensus.

\ Irwin Goldberg presented a
series of amendments all de-
signed to establish the Eud-
get Committee as an indepen-
dent bergaining group for sal-
aries and tenure. He argued
that his suggestion followed
the lines of James Magee's
proposals and would clearly
divide the faculty and the ad-
ministration on this all-ime
portant issue.

Drama Series Ends Tonight

The last of three programs
,of student-directed and stud-
ent-performed one-act plays
will be presented in the Hello
Flanagan Arena Theater at 8
p.m. tonight.

Tonight’s three plays will
conclude a total of ten plays,
all of them directed by moms
bers of the Acting and Direct
ing II class taught by Don
Boros of the Theater depart
ment.

The other plays were: Wed-
nesday: “The Wonder Hat,"
directed by Mary Brown; "The
Gentleman Caller,” directed
by Barry Huff; "The Agree-

ment," directed by Laura
Korach; and "The Man with
the Flower in his Mouth,"
directed by Nancy Harris.
Thursday: “The Measures
Taken," directed by Robert
Sackett, ”Twenty-Seven Wa—
gons Full of Cotton",directed
by Larry Grimm; and "Hello
0n There”, directed by M.
Garner Pfister.

Tonight's plays will be “The
Saturday Night Box Rebel-
lion," directed by Jane Buch-
holz; ”Botticelli," directed
by Ruth Ferry, and "Wanders
ing, A Turn," directed by
Marty Sachs.

After the faculty debated for
the 30-minute limit, the pro-
posals were defeated over—
whelmingly.

Arnold Adelberg then pro
posed his amendment to leave
the Faculty Organization
Committee as it now stands
(the EC proposal would have
changed its status) and to ch-
arge it with bringing a re-
commendation on the commit-
tee structure of the college
to the faculty. Thiswaspassed
overwhelmingly.

Adelberg then moved three
amendments concerning the
EC's proposed Divisional EX’
ecutive Committee, all of whr
ich were soundly defeated.

Robert Voertman moved a
clarification of the responsi-
bilities of the Divisional Exes
cutive Committee in the area
of staffing, which passed eas~
ily.

Finally, an amendment by
John Pfitsch to have the Ch-
airman of the Faculty preside
at all faculty meetings was
defeated. The meeting was
adjourned.

Thus far, the faculty has
gone down the line in support
of the EC's very conservative
document. Every amendment
which would even slightly ch-
ange the thrust of the docu-
ment (i e., maintain the status
quo, add a little more student
input, give division and de-
partment chairmen more pow-
er and more responsibility,
centralize more power in the
EC, maintain the EC as a

quasi- (or not so quasi- )ad-
ministrative body) has been
easily defeated.

Dissident faculty members
have their last chance to ch-
ange the document at next
Monday’s faculty meeting, al-
though if debate has not been
concluded by that time, there
will be a special meeting on
Thursday.

-mine

way or another for four years
here, as well as those who
will be back here next year.
I can't get over the feeling'
that there are a lot of things
that will have to be leftundone
and unsaid, because there isn't
enough time. But such is life.

Donahoe Takes
Medical Tests

Ned Donohoe, professor of
theatre, has not been meeting
with his classes for the past
few weeks because of medical
problems. He will undergo a
complete physical to deter-
if he will be able to
return next fall full time.
Both President Glenn Legg‘
ett and Dean Waldo Walker
told the 5&5 that if Donohoe
is not able to teach next fall, .
a replacement will be found
for him during the summer.
Sandy Moffitt, the new de-
partment chairman, will come
to Grinnell this week to dis-
cuss the problems and the
future of the theatre depart~
ment with President Leggett.
President Leggett has pled~
ged full administrative sup-
port to help Moffitt correct
the department's problems.
The department was hurt by
the elimination of oneposltion
because of the college's fis<
ml problems, then lost an-
other member to the Univer-
sity of Michigan and now is
threatened with the loss of
Donohoe.

New Evaluation Form In Use

Information questions on the
form include class, expected
grade in the course, cumula-
tive grade point, percentage
of class meetings attended,
percentage of classwork com-

A slightly revised instructor
evaluation form has been dis-
tributed to all faculty meme
bers to be given to theirclas»
ses.

A committee of faculty ex-
perts appointed by Dean Jos—
eph Wall reviewed the pro-
posed form at the request of
the faculty and madeanumber
of changes in order to better
judge the scientific accuracy
of the returns.

Members of the committee
are James Hamilton, James
Hottois, Karl DeLong and
George Furniss. They will
evaluate the accuracy of the
forms, and this year's forms
will be used only as a base
line for future semesters' re-
turns.

The new forms consist of
twelve questions to be ans-
wered on a five~point scale
from “poor" to “excep-
tional." There are four dif-
ferent forms with the order
of the questions varied tohelp
ensure accuracy.

pleted, type of course, and
student’s major.

Space is allowed on the form
for comments at the end of
each question and at the end
of the questionnaire.

Neal Klausner, professor of
philosophy, who had told the
faculty before the vote two
weeks ago requiring all tea-
chers to pass out the forms
that he would not pass out the
form, objected at this week's
meeting to the ShB account of
his speech and the subsequent
vote, which erroneously im-
plied that he would not obey
the faculty legislation.

Klausner told the 5&8 thathe
had made the speech in order
to protect youngerfacultyme-
mbers and that he generally
follows faculty legislation on
such matters.

 

