SticicerTe‘amr Victorious

While disappointed football
fans watched our team suc~
cumb to Cornell, our illusr
trious soccer team was trium—
phant over their Cornellian
counterparts. The closely
matched Grinnell and Cornell
squads played consistently
good ball which resulted in a
2-1 victory for the Pioneers.

Experiments In IM’s

Only two games remain to
play in the IM football sear
sons-they are Cowlesr Langan
againSt the Norrisesand Clark
against Off Campus on Oct.
14.

According to IM co~ chairman
in charge of football, Nick
Sturgeon, the season has been
a “success”. WendellTaylor,
also in charge offootballalong
with Nick, agreed and added
that everything done in [M
football this year was rather
experimental because there
are so many coied dorms.
The co-ed dorms cut down on
the number of teams playing
but they were arranged so as
to still have a good season.

Wendell hopes the other [M's
are as successful as football
has been.

The scores for the games as
of Tuesday, October 12,areas
follows:

Clark 38,
Cleveland 26

‘Off Campus 33, Read 20

Younkers 4S, Cowles 6

The Younkers-Cowles score
is a typical one for Younkers.
The hall has completely dome
inated the lM football scene,
averaging as of now 37.75
points a game. Younkerstakes
the game seriously.

Actually, IM football is the
type of sport thatis donepurer
ly for entertaiment and exer-
cise. The teams practiceda
little at the beginning of the
season, but the players us-
ually have better things to do.
The plays used are simple,
and the refs (who are paidone
dollar a game) try to keep the
players from being too rough.

In other IM newsnfor guys
there is going to be a pinball
tournament which will start
next Monday, A swim tourna-
ment will take place the secc
ond week after mid- semester
break and then volleyball sea
son will commence. The vol-
leyball may be divided into
three groups; guys,girls,and
cored; if enough people show
an interest.

in the girl’s IM's, Minir
soccer was not too successful
when it wasarrangedbyhalls,
there were eight out of eight

Haines»Main-

October 15, 1971

forfeits, but two games were
actually played. Now Minir
Soccer is arranged as an in-
terest group for anyone who
wants to play. Girl's IM
chairman Kristi Lewis is
planning a jacks tournament
and maybe a marble lourna’
ment and a jump rope tourna-
ment and....

Concerning the student
faculty Tennis in mixed dou-
bles held Sunday Oct.8,Emily
Wtubel and Gene Herman dev
feated Kathy Ellis and Waldo
Walker. Brad Vazales and
Linda Morris defeatedEd Hir~
sch and JoAnn Kexei. Also,
Louise Morris and George
Furniss beat Jon Kolber and
Coil Simurza. Jim Fudge and
Diane Deever lost to Bob
Shields and Ellen Yackin,

In the semirfinals, the team
of Vazales—Morris won over
i—Iermaanrubil and the Fur
niserorissa team beat Shi-
elds-Yackin. In the finalsheld
last Oct. 10, the team of
Brad Vazales-Linda Morris
defeated the G. M. Furniss--
Louise Morris team.

Spikers Crush Rants

by David Raub

Saturday the Pioneer cross-
country team crushed confer
ence rival Cornell 18-39,
chalking up their 16th con-
secutive dual meet victory.
With Chuck McGrath coasting
over the 4—mile course to an
easy 21:35 win, the Pioneers
took four of the first five
places. Dan Hildebrandstrode
into the stadium 30 seconds
later for second place, {ole
lowed by PhilMorales in third.
Paul Miller came in fifth with
Mark Cochran hanging tough
against his former team
mates, in seventh place. Bob
Shields and Terry Seeberger
completed the Pioneer's top
seven.

For the team the meet was a
good [UHETUP for the Coe Invi-
tational at Cedar Rapids this
Friday. If things go right, the
Pioneers willbe even stronger
with the addition ofScottWeil,
who sat out this week’s race
with a foot injury.

Once again Steve Korstadlcd
the team to victory, scoring
the only two goals for Grinnell.
Amazing Steve scored his two
goals fairly early in the game,
one of which was the result of
a penalty kick. For the season
Grinnell has accumulated 12
goals A eight of which have
been scored by Steve Korstad.

Tomorrow the Pioneers will
face Beloit away from home.
The match will be difficult
because we are going to be
playing minus three starters.
Steve Korstad,MarkSiegfried,
and Levi Wood will be taking
law boards and Mfon Ibangi‘la
is suffering from an ankle in
jury from the Monmouth game
that was reinjured at the Corr
nell encounter.

In addition to the loss of so
many players against such a
competitive opponent, the star
tistics are n0tverypromising.
Last year the Pioneers were
demolished, 71 by Beloit.
Even though the prospectsapr
pear to be bleak now, the en
thusiastic Pioneers will go
forward tomorrow and give
Eeloit a good fight.

Field Hockey Wins

by Lee

The Grinnell woman's field
hockey team emergedvictori-
ous from a match played
against Iowa State at Ames on
Saturday, October 9. The final
score was Grinnell 2, Iowa
State nothing.

Captain Scores Two

Both of the winning goals
were scored by team captain
Laura Davis, off deflection
passes by Lenore Miller and
Ellen Grady. This match was
the second in a series ofthree
games in which Grinnell has
lost one and won one.

Hopes Revealed

In an exclusive S&E Sports
interview with Laura Davis,
team captain, hopes were re
vealed for the upcoming game
to be played against the Uni-
versity of Northern Iowa at
Cedar Falls. In Laura's
opinion, the Grinnellian field
hockey players have an ex*
cellent chance of winning this
yme because of the high cali-
ber of players which make up
the team. The only real handi-
cap which faces the girls is
that there is only one substi-
tute player for the entire team,
thus making every injury count
heavily against the players.

The team appreciates having
someone to watch, especially
someone from Grinnell; so
beg, borrow, or steal. some
form of transportation to the
U.N.l. gave this Saturday.

The pleasant moment when you bite into

an Ahrv's pizza is something beyond words;

you must experience it.

We're here to provide such moments.

236.6222 AHRVANO’S PIZZA 236.5222

The Scarlet and Black

Combination full back'line back John Gray and Tackle Bill
Wright warm up before Saturday’s disappointingISU'U loss

to Cornell's Rams.
nell.

Statistically we hold an edge over Cor—
The pioneers ran off 28

more plays than the Rams,

had an 1815 edge in first downs, and completed 18 passes for
191 tards while limiting Cornell to six completions and 125

yards.
219 yards to Grinnell’s 91.

Cornell’s only advantage was in rushing which was

Flags Still In The News

In late April of 1969, Grinr
nell studentTed Glick inverted
the flag on central campus as
a ProtEStagalnSIII’ICViettNam
war. The flag’s position
immediately became the ccnr
ter of controversy.

During the next two Weeks it
was debated whether to fly
the flag at half mast, and a
referendum held May 5th de-
monstrated considerablestu'
dent support for the change.
The week before, Governor
Ray had urged Iowans to fly
the flag at half mast to honor
Iowa dead; (his influenced,
though it did not initiate the
debate about the flag.
According to an old 8&8,
President Leggelt made the
decision to fly the flag at
half mast on the morning of

May 5, before the referendum
was held.

President Leggett has recent-
ly asked Student Goverment
leaders toappraisethe student
body’s current preference as
to whether the American flag
should still be flown at half

mast, even though the Amerir
can flag cannOt legally be flown
below the UN flag and the col»
lege has no authority to lower
the UN flag to half mast.

—
Pinballs Silent On

Death OI 'Funland’

SUSPQCt Machineocide

Quite came to the Forum
basement for a short time last
week as “Funland,” a favor
rite machine of forum pin-
ball players, met the Grim
Reaper Tuesday night, when
its outer glass covering was
broken by angry (or overly
enthusiastic) students.

8&5 crime reporters were on
the scene within seconds of
hearing the sound of a fist
ramming into the machine, but
they were too late to catch
the fleeing culprits.

The machine's only comment
on its death was ' "

STUDENTS ~ TELL YOUR piRENTs ABOUT THIS
PLACE THAT HAS RE \LLY FABULOUS PASTRIES
...and if only you had the MONEY...

DANISH MAID BAKERY

818 Fourth Avenue

FACTORY CLOSEOUT SALE

JACKETS & GLOVES
PRICES BELOW WHOLESALE

LEATHER / SUEDE JACKETS
WOOL CPO COATS
CORDUROY JACKETS
GLOVES GALORE

811 Commercial SI.
Across from chde’s laundry

 

