Hare Sees Need For Black Commodity

by Elliot Lewis

Nathan Hare opened Black
Cultural Weekend last Friday
emphasizing the need for a
new scholarship and the in-
creasing need for awareness

'.\

1 't

Film by logy omen
Guest speaker Mr. Nathan
Hare opens Black Cultural

Weekend.

in the black community.

His keynote speech given in
Roberts contained manyanec-
dotes which proved to be
entertaining as ~well as a
means for his messages. He
told of past experiences as
well as the experiences of
Others including his days in
earlier education from grade
school to undergraduate and
graduate schools.

“A tighter understanding
from within the Black family
will have to take place before
we as a people can achieve
‘a real sense of unity," he
added after explaining how
blacks have not bondedas they
should have. Hare then re-
peated the need for another
and renewed scholarship, rea-
soning that times have changed
so that the old standards and
ideas do not necessarily apply
to today's situations. "Whites
are going to have to recog
nize our motivation and let
us utilize it."

Later at an informal rap
session at the Black Cultural
Center, Hare openly discussed

Anthro Department Goes In For

Recent revolutionary chan-
ges in course requirements
have triggered experimenta-
tion in this area by several
Grinnell department. Per-
haps the most ambitious of
the new programs is that de-
veloped by the Anthropology
department, which consists
primarily of offering courses
for either 2 or 4 credits, and
leaving to the student the op
tion of taking the extra 2 cre-
dits in independent research.
Department Chairman Ralph
Luebben contends that the new
program shouldencourage de-
partmental majors as well as
those with only ‘tangential in-
terests to further investigate
topics in the field of Anthro-
pology.

The system ofcourse options
grew out of a plan developed
last year by Professors Kurtz
and Caulkinsywhile Professor
Luebben was on leave. Introe
ductory courses are given for
two credits, but a student ac-
cepting a specific group of
additional assignments can
pick up an additional two cre‘
dits. In upper level courses
students may accept either
two credit or four credit pro-
grams, or they may opt for
a 2 plus 2 program: two
credits of required work and
two of independent study.

Seminars

Besides the new option pro»
gram the department has
changed the majorprogramby
reducing course requirements
and esmblishing junior and
senior seminars to deal with
advanced knowledge ofa gen-
eral nature. The .increased
faculty effort needed to pro
vide the varied option pro-
grams has also led to experi-
mentation in teaching. In in-

troductory courses the nor-

mally~dry lectures have been
limited to twice a week and
the third session is used for
discussion, often led by an
advanced student. The size
of the department staff lends
itself easily to teameteaching
possibilities. Luebben ex-

plained that he asks Mr. Kurtz
to teach certain areashe must
cover in an introductory cou-

rse, suchas linguistics, know-

ing that his colleague's know 1
ledge of the subject is broader
than his own. The only pro-

blems with this method is that
it means exua work on an
alreadyntight schedule and if
things go really well in the
class the Dean of the College
might not know to which in-
structor credit is due.

Greater Interest

The experimentation comes
at a time that the Anthropo-
logy Department is still con~
sidered by many as a poor
sister of the Sociology De-
partment, from which it split
four years ago. In terms of
enrollment, however, itis not.
Luebben contends that the
three members of his depart;
ment “have more than we can
handle." Surprisingly, only
oneethird of the students en-
rolled in the department are
taking courses for only two
credits, in cases where they
have that option. Students tak-
ing the additional two credits
normally do so within the re-
quired framework rather than
doing independent study.

Rather than indicating con-
servative taste on the part of
the students, these facts pro-
bably showa greater interest
in Anthropology, even among
the dabblers, than one might
at first suspect. Luebben ex-
plained that even among fresh»

topics ranging from ghetto
economics to pressure tac~
tics and political strategy.
"The only way to get any
place is to make our pre-
sence brown, and if force
is the only way it‘s the best
way.” He then added that
blacks on all campuses sho-
uld unite in functional orga—
nizations similar to Grinnell’s
CBS.

The well informed Doctor in
Social Science also shedsome
light on the functioning of his
magazine, "The Black Scho-
lar.” He noted how "Look"
magazine had folded despite
the large number ofsubscrip-
tions they had. ”This is a
prime reason we don't have
advertisers, nor are we wile
ling to go to the required
50,000 printings to be put on
the stands popularly." The
"Black Scholar" now has a
circulation of roughly 25,000.
Nathan Hare's ideology an
loosely be summed up in his
statement, "We’re just wor—
king for the right to be a
people."

Course Options

men the nine-page reading
list in his introductory course
does not seem to disturb the
students.

When asked whether he eXe
pected the 2, 2 plus 2, or 4-
credit options to be adopted
by other department, Lueb<
ben commented that it was
too early to judge the success
even in his own department--
and therefore he couldn't say.
Such a program seems, how-
ever, to be in accord with
the general education policy
Grinnell is taking, and its
success or failure will no
doubt ‘help determine the ex—
tent of ii opene’ofé‘dité options
throughout the College.

Staring mysteriously out of the past, Grinnell's ace aviator
Bill Robinson serves as an inspiration to all.

Grinnell Aviator left Momento

by Ann Cassei

The airplane engine in the
basement of the science bui-
lding has been a subject of
passing interest for Grinnell
students for many years, al—
though the story behind it is
one that few seem to know.
Dr. Grant 0. Gale, Professor
of Physics, seems to be the
College’s expert on the sub
ject even though, as he says,
he didn’t loiow Billy Robinson
personally.

Billy Robinson, whomoved to
Grinnell with his family in
i896, worked at a bicycle
shop. As the men began to
talk more and more about
the possibility of flying, Billy
became infatuated with the
idea of building a heavier-
than-air flying machine. Af-
ter going into business for
himself as coeowner ofa re-
pairshop,he began working on
his own airplane engine. inie
tially he ran into a few pro-
blems (his first attempt fell
apart), but he finally built an
engine which became the pat-
tei‘l‘i‘fESi‘Iﬁ‘i'étIe’i'i‘i'aw fpl'a'ne en;
gines. After he built his first

Hail Presidents Get Official KDIC Tour

by David Nicolai

After KDIC salaries and the
general lava-L of funding for
the campus station were de-
bated at the September 13
meeting of the Joint Board,
station manager Clayton Lee
decided thata fact- finding tour
of KDIC's facilitiesmighthelp
to clear up the sticky situa-
tion. Saturday morning, Shel-
ley Floyd, SGA President, and
three House Presidents sho-
wed up at the smtion for the
tour. The three H.P.’s who
came were Sam Clemons of
West Norris, Phil Sasich of
Loose, and Mark Siegfried
of Clark.

These four guests showed
plenty of interest in the sm-
tion, particularly its pro-
gramming, facilities
some ambitious plans for the
future, and appeared to be
appreciative of the station's
efforts to continually improve
its service to the college and
town.

The detailed equipment ine

 

POYNTER’S

rounrn A'mur nsm‘ous

ANNIVERSARY

SALE

107. off on women’s and girls’
dresses, sportswear and coats

ventory and 1971*72 physical
plant budget, prepared with
obvious meticulousness by
chief engineer Bob Sparks for
presentation to the Joint Bo-

- ard, was thoroughly explained

by Bob, Clayton, and BillTho-
mas, program director for
productions.

None of the budget was se-
riously questioned by the gue-
sts, and, strangely enough, the
allocation for KDIC salaries,
by far the most controversial
facet of the budget at the
Joint Board meeting, was only
briefly mentioned. Claytonpor
inted out that since the revi-
val of KDIC, the salary alien
cation has increasedonlyonce
u from $1400 to the present
$1500.

airplane Billy decided that of
course he should learn to fly
it, so he took lessons and

learned so well that in 1911
he became a partner in the
National Aeroplane school.
When he returned to Grinnell
in 1913 he worked on per-
fecting his plane and motor,
making many test flights in
the Iowa area. In 1914 he set
371 air speed record of eighty
miles an hour while flying
from Des Moines to Chicago.
Always looking upward, Billy
then decided to try for an air
titude record. In 1916 he flow
at 14,000 feet, only 3000 feet
below the current record at
that time. On March 11, 1916
he made his final attempt at
beating the world‘s record,
climbing high into the sky and
ﬂying in a southeasterly die
rection from Grinnell. Every-
thing seemed to be going fine
until his plane somehow got'
out of control and began to
spiral downwards. When the
rescuers reached the plane,
it had already gone up. in‘:
flames and Robinson had per:y
ished in the firelThough there
are various theories, no one
knows what really happened to
Billy when he was up in the
air.

Billy Robinson is one of Io-
wa's great, but sliorrlived,
historical heroes. He has
made his mark in the annals
of Iowa history,and his memo-
ry is still alive in Grinnell.
His gravestone in the Hazel-
wood cemetery reads: “’Ihis
stone marks the resling place
of William C. Robinson; Pio-
neer noirstop flier and sec
ond authorized carrier of air
mail. He met his death in his
plane a few miles south of
Grinnell when making an alti—
tude ﬂight Match 11, 1916.
Erected by those who honor
‘the memory of Billy Robin-

 

and.

BUDWEISER

V2 BARREL
(16 gal.)

$25

00

plus deposit

McNAllY’S SUPER VAlUr

Open 24 hours, 7 days a week

 

THRU SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 25

 

September 24, 1971

 

The Scarlet and Block 1 l

 

