This is one of a group of photographic prints by
Grinnell photographers on sale in the bookstore. The

photo is by John Roweli.

Clinics, Doctors Report Many Cases 0f Poisoning

(continued from page 3)

from the underground press
in 1968.

Early in 1968 Dr. H. Graff
reported a case ofa 19-year
old girl who hadobrainedsome
marihuana soaked in scopole
amine. After smoking the
joints she became highly agi~
tated and delusional and had
to be admitted to a hospital.
While the practice of mixing
belladonna alkaloids with
ﬁéyljuana is'not' widespread
in the United States, it has
been extensively employed in
India, where cannabis is often
combined with seeds from the
plant, Datura stramonium.
When the British government
was investigating the effects
of marijuana on the Indian
populace in the 1890's, they
conducted a series of biologic
cal experiments , with mon-
keys. Q-le animal was trained

to smoke a combination of

marijuana and Datura andwas ,

Step up to

JD’S RESTAURANT
922:1/2 Main
Mom-Sat. 5 to 10 pm.
Sunday-Noon to 10 pm.

 

allowed to continue this prac*
tice for a number of months.
The monkey was then sacrir
ficed and the autopsy revealed
abnormally soft cerebralmatr
ter, while the other parts of
the brain were in various sta-
ges of decomposition. None of
these effects were seen in th-
ose monkeys trained to smoke
only marijuana, and the docs
tors concluded that Datura,
when used over a, prolonged
periodi-of‘ time, can directly
cause organic brain damage.
The various natural bellar
donna alkaloids include atro-
pine, hyoscyamine, scopola-
mine and homatropine. In ad
dition, there are a number of
synthetic and semi-synthetic
substitutes for belladonna ai—
kaloids used in a variety of
pharmaceutical preparations.
All these drugs have similar
psychological, physiological
and pharmacological effects.
For the sake of simplicity,
atropine will be discussed
here as the main representa-
tive of this group of drugs.
Atropine is usually extracted
from pi: s in the Solanaceae
family, hich include the
deadly ni tshade and the
thorn-app (also known as
the devil, apple). Atropine
acts in th body by antagoni-

zing (or b ocking the effects

Road Service
leo’s Standard

236- 7160
SIXTH & WEST

TRAVEL NEWS

FIRST TIME , STUDENT RAIL?

PASS

2 months $125 for 13

European countries

ALSO CONSIDER: STOP TOURS
CHARTER-TOURS to Europe ,
$837 and up

CAMPING in Europe - 22 days
or more $567 and up

MOTORSCOOTER holidays in
Britain A from $337

Ask a professional , your local Travel Agent

GRINNELL TRAVEL CENTER .

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

April 2, 1971

Foreign Relations Get Shot In... Uh, Arm?

(continued from page 3)

the deepest feelings within
herself about these gringos
who sat before her seeking
the ultimate answers to their
questions. 7

“A hundred dollars!" she
said softly. My companion coir
lapsed gently from hiscl‘lair
onto the floor. The ultimate
answer to his question hithim
where it hurt most. “Forget
it!" he replied. The Woman
turned to go but hesitated; roe
turning to us she whispered,
“Fifty?" My companion
looked her in the eyes andre-
plied “No!” ”Twenty'fiveil"
she asked; “Nevcrl” he ran
plied. “Well then how much?"
she demanded in a soft Span-
ish accent. ”Fifteen" he said
gently. ”OK," she answered.
Each of us found a suitable
subject to investigate and we
were led, one by one, to the
examination room, which was
occupied by an elegant Louis
XIV bed with canopy. The inn
terior of this room, like the
entire mansion, was done in
deep purple. As I sat down, a
Mexican lady,aboutfiftyyears

of) acetylchoiine and other
endogenous muscarinicagents
(chemicals whichaCtivate mu~
scular contractions and ex
tensions).

This muscular effect ofatr07
pine is particularly pronoun-
ced in the eye, where the drug
blocks the responses of the
sphinceter muscle of the iris
thereby causing the familiar
dilated pupil, a common symr
prom of belladonna alkaloid
intoxication. The extensive
pupillary dilation caused by
high doses may cause the eye
to focus only on distant ob-
jects, thus hampering an in-
dividual’s capacity to coor»
dinate activities in his imme-
diate proximity.

Atropine also causes a mar-
ked dryness of the mouth and
of mucous membranes in the
respiratory tract. This effect
is accomplished by the drug's
relaxing of the muscles in the
bronchial tract which causes
the tract’s volumeto increase,
thus allowing more air to en»
ter and leave. For these rear
sons, belladonna alkaloids
have often been recommended
for symptomatic relief of as-
Lhma.

When given in high doses
(above 10 mg.), atropine may
increase heart rate byas much
as 40 or 50 beats per minute.
Concomitantly, a significant
increase in body temperature
is often observed, which is

(continued to page 8)

For school or
typewriter
supplies

GRINNELL
OFFICE sumv

GRINNELL, IOWA
Across from the Post Office

 

of age and three hundred
pounds, entered the room.

”What do you Want7"1asked.
“Inspection," she said in a
deep Mexicanvoice. Idisrobed
and was inspected to make
sure I had no lethal weapons
to endanger the securiLy of
the operation. Having ti‘nl'sned‘,
she turned to me and said,
“Five dollars, please," "For
what?" Iquestioned. ”Thein-
spectioll,” she replied. I [IT
ought it only fair: receiving
her pay, she smiled and left.
I was now anxious to begin
my intense research. Don
Jose entered the room and
Said, ”That will be four dole
lars now." ”Why7" I asked.
"You have to pay for the
room," ile replied. Again,
feeling it was only fair re-
compence for allowing me to
uncover certain areas of cul-
tural interest, I obliged him.
I lay back waiting for the op
portunity to discover the
knowledge I so desperately
sought. I heard a knock on my
door, and one of my traveling
companions entered, asking,
“DO you have four dollars?"
I gave him the four and he
went his way to see ifhe could
discover anything that I might
be incapable of comprehend‘
ing.

At last the subject entered
the room and began to explain
everything necessary to un,
derstand her culture. There
was little verbal communica*
tion, but the messages flowed

between us. (Ah America, my
new—found land!) Unfortunate

ly, my companion had failed
to close the door on his way
out, and I soon noticed a sold*
ler sitting outside the room,
closely observing my re*
search technique In the pro*
cess he became so infatuated
that he began to yell such
things as ”Go man go; yeah,
yeah, yeah,” and other plea-
santries. Apparently, he too
was attempting to cross the
cultural borders of our soc-
iety and trying to learn how to
relate to this foreign land.

Having completed the invest-
iytion, we parted; and [re
turned to the ante chamber of
the hacienda to await my two
companions. They soon are
rived and we bid Don Jose a
fond farewell; thanking him
ever so much for providing
us with the information we
sought.

We began to walk from the
courtyard when our comrade,
Juan, arrived with his laxi
shouting, “Would you like a
ride back to the city? Only
ten dollars!" "Drop dead,"
was our cordial reply. "Five
dollars?" he asked. “sl,” we
replied. Returning home, we
compiled the data which we
had gathered and discovered
that, despite theamount ofnew
knowledge gained, it would be
financially impossible for a
small liberal arts college to
conduct a Mexican Cultural
Exchange Program.

I ick Gregory
Dick Greﬁ‘olhysekmfsprenl,‘ Monday

(continued from page 4)

ed cconomic functions,

At 8 pm. the Karamu Play-
ers, another group dealing
with Black life styles, will
perform in Roberts Theater.
This performance will be folr
lowed by another open house.
There are many ways ofdes-
cribing Dick Gregory, who
will speak in Derby Monday
night at 8 pm. He is a comic
critic of America -the joke‘s
on you. Heisa dedicated Black

It’s all together at

9

909 Main

 

 

wit and the truth. The truth
might set you free, soIadvise
checking it out.

This is the third Martyr's
Weekend at Grinnell; and as
we express how we feel about
those aspects of our lives that
color the tone of this can,
sion, we must each remember
what time it is For the op-
pressor, it is timetowillingly
change or to be changed. For
the oppressed, it is nation
time ., time to build.

ABORTION

lNFORHATlON
AND
ASSISTANCE

CALL (215) 875-5800

24 hours 7 days
FOR TOTALLY CONFIV
DENTIAL INFORMATION

w. Itwm’vtrd way;

it. mu veputabl- piviiritni; deer
l... al‘tvmq in. ”a ,..»...,i.l.
our”, mum um wll to cum-
pl.l.l, on», m w “mm nu.
(“ma M “mam laipllllr

L-ul Abortions Without [inlay
ARS INT.

 

