New Housing Proposal Includes
Nine Coed Halls,Five By Room

The Housing Subcommittee,
Chaired by Ric MacDowell,
has compiled asuggested dor-
mitory arrangement for next
year. The plan includes nine
coedumtional halls for 438
students (five, with 309 stud-
ents, would be coed by room),
four allrmale halls and five
all~female halls.

The new plan, which will be
submitted to the student—fac-
ulty Committee on SocialPole
icy, calls for the Norrises,
the Younkers and Loose to be
coed in; room. Bathroomswo-
uld be arranged by wing in both
the Norrises and the Younk-
ers. Cleveland, l-laines,l.ang-
an and Cowles are all to be
coed by floor under the pro-
posal. Women may be offered
Mcars, Main, James, Gates
and Dibble, leaving Read, Sm»
iui, Clark and Rawson for die
men.

The major problem created
by this proposal, which the
subcommittee is trying to
work out, is that womenwould
outnumber men on South Cam-
pus by 300 to 180; and men
would outnumber women on
North Campus by 315 to 230.
A possible solution to that
problem would be to switch
the sexes in Smith and Main.
The proposal provides room
for 1,025 students on campus
and 100 students in off—cam-
pus houses (four corops and

probably four other houses).
That leaves about 125 stud’
ents who are expected to live
offtcampus next year.

The subcommittee also will
recommend to the Committee
on Social Policy that house
presidents be elected after
room draw by the students
who have drawn into the indi-
vidual house. Members of
the subcommittee anticipated
that a person wouldbeallowed
to run for president of any
dorm, but that all elections
would be held the same night.

The subcommittee discussed
ways of improving the effect
iveness of house president
and informally endorsed the
idea of a list of expectations
for presidents which would
be published for the campus
community. Membersalsoag-
reed that the administration
should make a greater com-
mitment for the training of
house presidents.

The subcommittee discussed
the fairest method ofselecting
the groups who will occupy
the co- ops next year and see-
med to agree that all appli-
cants who agreed to sign a
contract with the college she
ould be put in a hat, with the
ﬁrst four pulled getting the
houses. The subcommittee
may recommend that there be
two nonecoop project houses
next year if there is a demand
for them.

SGA Criticizes Leggell’s Plan

by Betsy Gilman

SGA, in two meetings this
week, considered proposed
amendments to President
Leggett's academic reorgans
ization plan and a proposed
merger between theSenateand
AWS/C of HP.

At their Monday night "101:1?
ing, the Senate took up a pro-
posed statement concerning
President Leggett’s academic
reorganization plan and pro—
posed amendments to it. The
proposals, which will be put
in final form by a smallgroup
of senators Saturday morning,
are in response to what SG’l
considers weaknesses in Legs
gett‘s provisions for student
representation in academic
matters. The basicproposals,
written by Bill Thomas, int
clud .

Elimination of the Executive
Council of the faculty and
elevation of two subcommit~
tees to fulfill the Executive
Council's functions. These
subcommittees would be the
College Personnel Committee
and the College Educational
Policy Committee.

inclusion of student repres
entatives in departmental
EPC's.

Formation of a “studentacae
demic senate,"parallelingthe
faculty, to review all propo-
sals inamdemicmatters. Me-
mbers of this group would in*
elude all student members of
departmental and divtsional

Iihﬂ EliaI‘IﬂIi

er HUMAN
|H4h I"

> D ;
Qﬁ 5
§

”M [OWENSE 0"

VOL. LXXIX No.10

FEBRUARY 5, 1971

GRINNELL, IOWA 50112 ‘

Mental Center Gives Free Help

by Marilyn McKenna

What is the Poweshiek Men-
tal Health Center, and what
does it offer Grinnell stud-
entsl

The Center, located on the
fourth ﬂoor of the Community
Hospital, is staffed by two
clinical psychologists, Doctor
John Daniel (currently in his
4th year at the Center) and
Dr. George Castore (since
Nov. l, 1970). GrinneLl Col-
lege has a contract with the
Center under which each studt
ent is eligible for five sess
sions with a psychologist at
no cost, and if continued ses"
sions are necessary, fees are
established on an individual
basis.

Both doctors stressed that

'A

those seeking help shouldn‘t
expect to be given quick'andr
easy solutions to their prob-
lems. Castore explained the
nature of the services by say-
ing that they were a way for
the individual to open new
doors and see more things
which in turn can give him new
ways of approaching hisprob-
lem. Daniel emphasized the
impormnce of a ﬂexible apt
proach, one that can adapt to
the changing needs of patients
as individuals.

When asked about the prob
lem of conflicting viewspolir
tical, social, or otherwise—-
between psychologist and pair
ient, Daniel stressed that the
doctor would only be con-
cerned with helpingthe patient
to explore the conflicts rele*
vant to that problem andnever

g.
DOCTO S John Daniel and GEOIge Castore, clinical
psychologists at the Poweshiek Mental Health Center,
confer on one of the 150 mses they have dealt with in
the past year. (Photo by Bob Bimbaum)

with "reforming” the patient.
Concerning drug use specifier
ally, Daniel explained that he
felt that “drugs do not enter
matically cause problems, but
in some cases can be related
to the problem." If this were
the case, he explained thatthe
doctor would help the patient
explore the reasons for drug
use and abuse.

A student does not need to
be referred to the Center, but
may set up an appointment on
his own. 80th doctors empha'
sized that a problem does net
have to be of an extreme note
ure before help is sought.

(continued to page 6)

EPC’swa total of about 130
members.

Thomas also made a number
of other suggestions, which
will be considered when the
smaller group of senators
meet Saturday to work out the
proposal to be submitted to
the faculty.

At theirTuesdayeveningmer
eting, thc Senators considered
revision of Senate organiza*
tion and a possible merger
with AWS/C of HP.

Al Cohen, speaking of the
Senate’s ideal functions, noted
that it has the power to meet
as a body with the President,
Deans, and Other administrar
tors. He went on to say that
in the fall it functions as fin~
ance committee, while during
the rest of the year it picks
committee members and cor
ordinates committees and ac
tivities.

Inevitably, the questionarose
concerning how well the Sen-
ate actually handles these
jobs. It was pointed out that
there are often Jurisdictional
disputes between the Senate
and AWS/C of HP over control

of funds. Mike Breed argued,
"Wouldn’t it be more logical
for the house presidents to do
all the budgetingandeliminate
overlap?" Andy Loewi then
questioned the actual amount
of "watchdogging" that the
Senate does over fundrspendc
ing.

Those favoring the marger
maintained that there are no
Senate functions which AWS/
C of HP is incapable of hand—
ling. Bill Thomas and Mary
Brooner, respective presid-
ents of C of HP and AWS,
maintained that the line be-
tween their duties and those
of the Senate is not really
defined at all. They also clai-
med that Committee A sub-
committees are starting to
take over AWS/C of HP funr
ctions. They said that a mer»
ger would end the separation
between political and social
life which, in their opinion,
should not exist.

They also raised the point
that, after a merger, student
representatives would have a

(continued to page 3)

Norrises File Petition Asking
Improvements And Rebuilding

by Debbie McKnight

East and West Norris were
planned as Grinnell's luxury
dormitory for upperclassmen.
During construction, a short-
age of funds produced theprer
sent less»than-luxurious ac-
comodations. As a physical
plant, the Norrises are known
for two things: their fantastic
view to the north, and their
lack of anything resembling
soundproofing.

Apparently the situation is
worse than the most critical
campus opinion has imagined.
In their brief existence (since
1960) the Norrises have unr
doubtedly housed many fine
people. They would not be ob-
jectionable residences except
that as East SA Curt Scribner
says, “They’re going to fall
down."

Near the end of last semes-
ter, Scribner sent a letter
describing the Norrises’ exact
problems to the Housing Com-
mittee. The Committee was
impressed but could not take
immediate action. A meeting
of East and West officers and
SA's decided to press the
matter. Scribner, a two-year
resident of the hall, suggestt
ed a petition. (Accompanying
this article)

A Committee for Emergenr
cy Reconstruction, co-chair-
ed by Scribner and West SA
Dave Rosenwasscr, circulated
the petition. "It was signedby
60 or 70% of the hall before
semester break," said Scribr
ner. “And I’m sure more

would have signed if the petie
tion had been around longer."

Norris RA Bill Abdallah gave
Dean Wall a copy before va-
cation. Business Manager Po-
merenk, Andy Loewi, RicMac
Dowell, and the Housing Com-
mittee also received copies.
Scribner decided that in addi-
tion the trustees should be inn
formed.

With each petition sent toa
trustee went a letter inviting
him or her to stay in the Nora
rises during the next Board
meeting this spring. TrllF'meS
have expressed interest in
staying with students, and this
seemed a perfect way to ilt
lustrate the Norrises' point.

Last Tuesday one ofthe trus-
tees, Theodore Lovejoy ofDes
Moines, responded directlyby
coming to Grinnell. ”Nobody
knew he was coming," Scrib'
ner explained, “He just drop-
ped in with the letter in his
hand. Said he heard we were
having trouble with the Nor-
rises."

The first resultofthisgrass-
roots action is a meeting to
be held next Wednesday night,
February 10, in the Norrises.
The deans of the college and
Housing Committee members
will be present. RA abdallah
remarked, “I bet most people
in the dorm will turn out for
this. I think it will be really
interesting for a large group
of people to try fitting in one
of these lounges. It almost
can’t be done.”

(continued to page 3)

Henry Wilhelm Sues For $50,000

On Friday, January 22,1971,
a suit was filed in Iowa Distr
rict Court in Montezuma on
behalf of Henry Wilhelm age
ainst Grinnell College asking
$50,000 in damages foralleged
libel aginst Wilhelm by the
College. Wilhelm is a photo-
grapher and co'owner of the
East Street Gallery located in

Grinnell.
The college has until Febru-

ary 11 to file an appearance
in the case and then mustprer
pare an answer. At that point
the case will be tried by jury.
Wilhelm claims in the Suit
that Grinnel College, with
malicious int, released a
story to area news media
falsely accusing him of or-
gnizing a protest against a

representative of Playboy
Magazine, which took place at
the College on February 5,
1969. During the protest a
number of men and women
students completely disrobed
to protest what they termed
Playboy’s "sexist policies."
The students were later ar-
rested and chargedwith "lewd
and lascivious conduct" in a
case that is now beingappealed
to the US. Supreme Court.
The story, which allegedly
accused Wilhelm of organiz-
ing the protest so he could
phOtograpli it and sell the pic*
tures, was first broadcast
over Grinnell College radio
station KDIC by a student at
the College, Neil Fischer. The
story was later allegedly re-

leased to local and state news
media by Ruth Prescott of the
Grinnell College public rela—
tions office. Mrs. Prescott is
also named in the.suit.

in the suit, Wilhelm alleges
"that the defendents, theirag'
ents and employees knew the
(allegtions) were Else, de-
famatory and untrue, but did
maliciously broadcast and
publish the aforesaid state-
ments with the intent to exv
pose the plaintiff to public
hatred, contempt or ridicule;
to deprive him of the benefits
of public confidenceandsocial
intercourse; to prejudice his
integrity and character in the
eyes of the community; to in*
jure his reputation in the eyes

(continued to page 3)

 

