Original Moiors Rise

by David Nicolai

There is a “new" aspect
to the Grinnell curriculum
of which all students should
be aware - the independent
major.

The possibility of combining
independent studyprojects and
various courses. from diff-
erent departments into a
major not offered as a tra-
ditional discipline at Grinnell
has existedforsome time now;
however, it was not until the

faculty, in its first meeting
of the 1970-71 academicyear,
formalized the procedures to
be followed by all indepenr
dent majors that the students
responded to this possibility.

Although only one brave in-
dependent major graduated
this May, there are present»
ly (Wenty’slx students on
campus with approved inde
pendent majors - six seniors
and twenty juniors.

A look at the fields being
pursued by independent mas
jors shows that they range
from fairly established divis
sions of the Grinnell curricu-
lum, such as religious stud—
ies and urban studies, to pos-
sibly one of the most origin
nal majors to be found any-
where, children's literature.

Other independent majors
are AfrosAmerican studies,
combined disciplines (e.g.,
history-literature. sociolo
anthropology. comparative li~
terature, contemporaryphilo-
sophy, educational philor
sophy-psychology, interna-
clonal studies, and Latin Amt
erican Studies).

All independent majors
must have their programsapr
proved by their faculty spon-
sors and Dr. Joseph Wall,
Dean of the College, who subs

mits each program to the Co-
mmittee on AcademicStanding
for its approval.

However, Dean Wall notes,if
the sharp rise in interest in
independent majors conti‘
nues, a new committee deal»
ing with approval ofthese ma-
jors will probably be neces-
sary.

Dean Wall, who feels that
these majors addneeded flexi-
bility to the curriculum, alt
thoug ”they are not meant
for the majority of the stu*
dents”, is somewhatconcern-
ed over the amount of inde
pendent study which most in-
dependent majors must pure
sue in order to complete the
required thirtys two credits in
the major field. He estimates
that presently the percentage
of independent study in the
major fields in 25A33% for an
independent major. An int
crease in this percentage mi-
ght necessitate administrar
tion guidelines on the matter.

Dean Wall also emphasizes
that any student interested in
declaring an independent ma
jor must do so by the regur
iar deadlines - the end of
the student's sophomore year,
or, in the caseoftransferstu-
dents, the end of the first
semester of their junioryear.

9
i _
, (Photo by Gan Sui Man)

Greg Gu-roff, the College's New Ambassador to Russian
House, With his daughter and his Russian Dictionary.

leggett Names NewAmbossodor

Our new ambassador to Rus-
sian House is Greg Guroff,
assistant professor of his-
tory.

The appointment, announced
by President Glenn Leggett's
office, was made in response
to Russian House’s appoints
ment of Mrs. Marjorie Daly
as Ambassador to the College
last week.

The exchange of ambassas
dors means that each govern-
ment has a diplomatic mis-

Convict Two Norris Residents

Clay Williams and Charles
Britchford were the first stu-
dents convicted ofcharges be-
fore a judicial council this
year. At a hearing held Th-
ursday evening at Norris Hall,
Britchford was convicted of
"General harassment of re-
sidents of Norris Hall" while
Williams was convicted of
"General misconduct, damage
to Norris Hall property, and

Molds Will‘lle‘ceivo Poy Increase

College dormitorymaids who
began work this year several
days after the beginning of
the \vageeprice freeze will
nevertheless receive their
planned raise for this year,
according to Vice-President
and Treasurer Donald Lame
bie.

The decision to pay all B&G
workers classified as ”Clear
her 2" under the new rate
was made by the administra-
tion this week on the advice
of the Des Moines law firm
which handles labor matters
for the college.

Health, Education, and Welw
fare officials in Kansas City
said last week that scheduled
wage hikes could go into efr
feet for all workers of one
classification if some of them
had worked before August 15.
This ruling applied in the
case of cleaners 2 at Grin"
nell, since about five to eight

 

IA. BARBER
SHOP

GRINNE LL‘S NEWEST
AND FINEST

‘ RAZOR CUTTING

* MUSTACHE AND
BEARD TRIMMING

' LADIES HAIR
CUTTING

Specie zing I_n
”SHAG HAIRCUTS”

see GARY or SUSIE

724 5th

had been employed during the
summer in the library and
other buildings which are
cleaned all year while 13 to
15 began cleaning the dormi-
tories after August 15.

Because of earlier uncer
tainty, maids did not receive
the scheduled raise in their
August 21 paychecks, but that
differential had been made
up and the new rate is now
in effect, beginning with the
pay check they received this
week for the period ending
September 4.

Lambie told the 58:13 that the
college has writtena letter
through its law firm to the
Cost of Living Council in War
shington, D.C., requesting an
official answer to the question
of EEG workers' raises.

unlawful use of a firealarm."

The council recommended
that Britchford be placed on
Conduct Probation until Nov-
ember 1, and that Williamsbe
charged for repairs to the
Hall, fined $10.00 for setting
off the Fire Alarm, and pla-
ced on Conduct Probation un-
til the end of this semester.

The charges arose out of
incidents occuring the night
of Friday, September 3 in
which Britchford allegedly int
insulted a resident of the hall
because of her Jewish res
ligion, attempted to remove
the screen on a first floor
window and enter a girl’s bed
room, threatened a hall offi-
cer, and slapped another re-
sident of the hall.

Williams is alledged to have
intentionally set off the hall
fire alarm, entered a girl's
bedroom uninvited and seated
himself “in extremely close
proximity" on the girl's bed
while in an intoxicated condi-
tion", forced the girl to leave
her room and locked the door,
broke a large hole in a clo-
set door with his fiSt, and
insulted a girl because of her
Jewish religion.

Britchford and Williams have
seven days in which to appeal
their cases to the All Campus
Judicial Council.

Schootter Pointing Disappears

A drawing was

stolen from Schaeffer Art Gallery this

week. The work was a small drawing from a collection by
Hartson; it was not a highly valued piece. The theft occurred
sometime in the early morning of last Tuesday, September 7.
The incident is being investigated by the Grinnell Police

Department.

Such thefts are not rare at Schaeffer Gallery.

 

 

 

Between Main 8: West

GAS
Oll

BUS

CALL or SEE

lQBO’!

236-7205

 

 

 

 

 

sion on the soil of the other.
NegOtiations are expected to
begin shortly on matters of
cultural exchanges, trade rc—
lations, and an arms llml’
tation agreement.

However, ambassador Gus
roff sees son , difficulties in
these negotiations for two rear
sons. First, the shape of the
conference table to be used
will present many problems.
Secondly, he considers the
college slighted, since the
Russian House ambassador to
the college does not speak
Russian.

Guroff added that Russian
House plans many social oc-
casions designed to subvert
the students on campus and
cause them to trust thepeople
of Russian House. He cau-
tioned students "not to be
duped by these lackeys of the
Kremlin". In short, students
should feel free to accept the
hospitality of the people of
Russian House, but should be
wary of any further entan-
glements.

Lock Your Bicycles

Police Chief Bill Peters ads
vises students to lock bicyc-
les at all times. His office
has received reports of gangs
who are systematically steals
ing bicycles in the area.

Executive Council
Meets Wednesday

Overall faculty size and dis-
tribution of staff by depart-
ment will be the major issues
confronting the Executive
Council as it begins its new
year. The question of facul‘
ty size and distribution was
virtually the only topic raised
at the Council's regular Wed
nesday meeting.

Dean of the College Joseph
Wall stated that the Council
would be considering the res
commendations of last year's
Council on these subjects.
Since the previous recommenr
dations have never been re'
leased to the faculty,andsince
he felt that the new council
(which contains six now mem-
bers out of a total member
ship of twelve) might not ad
here to them, he declined to
provide a copy of the recom~
mendations for the 5&8.

The Council also discussed
briefly the forthcoming visit
of Dr. Randall Morgan, Sr. of
Gary, Indiana, who will be the
guest of the Council at a
special luncheon meeting Sat
turday. Dr. Morgan, who was
granted an lionora ry degree by
the college last year, will
discuss ways of recruiting
more black faculty members
for the college.

The Scarlet and Block

Finance committee
Switches Priorities

In a series of meetings ear-
ly this week, the Student Go-
vernment Finance Committee
established new budget prio-
rities for the 1971772 school
year, and decided on several
new procedures for the hand-
ling of the budget throughout
the year.

The budget decided on by the
committee at Wednesday
night’s meeting will still need
final approval from the AWS-
CofHP Joint Board, and it
is slated to be the prime to-
pic of the board’s meeting
Monday night, September 13.

Major budgetary revisions
will be submitted to the board
in all major areas except the
Social Coordinating Commit-
tee. Some of these revisions
grew out of recommendations
the board made at its mee-
ting Monday, and the impetus
for some came from the re-
turn of Andy Brill, '69A'7U
finance chairman, to the come
mittec.

Hall funds for the coming
year will be greatlyincreased
under the proposed budget;
last year they were $1800.
The Joint Board passed a
resolution last Monday asking
that hall funds be a minimum
of $5000, and the committee
has included this amount in
their proposed budget. This
action is meant to encourage
hall activities.

The Initiative Fund will be
changed into a "culturalfund"
for the coming year, with a
budget cut and a change in
purpose and procedure. lts
$3000 for .the coming year
will be administered by a
committee chaired by Chip
Shofstall, andactivities funded
by it must be approved in
advance by that committee.
Last year, when the initiative
fund was $5000 and was used
primarily for parties, prior
approval was infrequent.

General Budget Reserves
(GER) for next year will be
increased to $3000 under the
committee's plan. One thou—
sand dollars of this will be
retained as an emergency fund
(the total $2000 served this
purpose last year), but the
rest is expected to be used
for major events, speeches.
for ”primer" for new org-
nizations in need of money,
and for making up any ine-
quities or special needs which
may arise from the general
budget.

In addition, the committee
cut back salaries of Student
Government officials (theSGA
president, the AWS president,
the Cof HF president, the
student coordinators) to $300
from $400 last year. Each of
the co-student coordinators
will receive $300.

The Social Coordinating
Committee's $33,000 budget
will remain unchanged from
last year, despite requests by
Social Coordinator Ed Levine
for more money. The c0m<
mittee did press Levine on
his plans for the year, and
was satisfied in the end with
his explanations. .

Possible Scandal

The finance committee also
decided to ask the student
auditors to submit a monthly
report so they‘ can act as
watchdogs of expenditures
more than they have in the
past. According to committee
chairman George Shybut, the
decision was partly prompted
by the student auditor's dis
covery that some calls made
last year on the SGA telephone
account may not have been
strictly on SGA business.

September 10, l971 3

 

