Page 6

THE SCARLET AND BLACK

MarshaII’s LeHer Continues

(continued from page 4)

the Admissions Department
can now rightfully bestow upon
our exalted heads the title of
“Robert B. Jones University
of the Midwest." Toilets have
not escaped the delugs; dormir
tory johns are now festooned
with exhormtions to heed the
cooing and beilowings of sor-
cers of ecological statisticry.
The gustatory front, intoler
rable to begin with, is made
even more intolerable by Pubs
lic Hygiene Jehouahs with
their arcane babble of fruc-
toses and glucoses, which,
upon being rendered intelli-
bible, provide the gloomy re-
velation that not only is SAGA
food unpalatable, but dir-
ectly dangerous. Even
Stalin, totalitarian and scoun-
drel that he was, probably
allowed his subjects to gobs
ble their cheeseburgers and
eliminate the remains of those
cheeseburgers, replete with
phosphates, in peace andwith-
out fear of breaking out into
pustules or butchering vital
organs.

Regarding the radial situa-
tion, the Blacks have ap-
parently at some point in the
past been inoculated en masse
against the bounderism dis—
cussed above. As Mencken
once said, the Black race
has been notably successful
at keeping their heads and
retaining their sense of hu-
mor while resisting the efr
forts of white frauds to make
fools of them. That statement
applies to this campus and
most particularly, to Younker
Hall. As a resident of Youn-
ker Hall, I can attest to its

veracity. It is true that the.

Blacks, even the least milir
tant, will occasionally exco~
riate at their chief Beelzebub,
the honky. A few such ex-
coriations were inveighed as
gainst the honky in the hall
meeting referred to in last
weekly SSIB. Being a honky
of impeccable credentials my-
self, Iwas reluctant to accept
the role of Mephistopheles.
However, given the prepos~
terous nature of honky cre~
ations, and artifices on this
campus, I am quite willing to
unreservedly agree with any
Black on the contention that
the hunky. (excepting, of co-
urse, myself) is an incurable
imbecile.

Moreover, the Black stu-
dents, even though they may
issue phillipics against the
white students, do not torture
and harass the white students
with questionnaires. They
sagaciously refrain fromass»
aulting human dignity by de-
clining to paste their phampr
hlets on bathroom walls. The
ey do not offend and lacer-
ate the ear -b,y haying their
sermons during meal times.
Most political organizations
on this campus spout posi—
tion papers and do little else
except to annoy and condos»
cend. The CBS, by contrast,
have their position papers and
assorted evangelical paraphr
enalisp but they also import
luminaries such as the Har-

“yer morn-m EXAMPLE 0! the
1/le incisive grasp or the
problems His! face us: Thc
United Nations Economic
Commission iar Europe has
issucd it: 1970 rcporr, the ﬁrst
conclusion of which is- ‘Wcs-
rhcr conditions in 19694970
cncc again varied considr
ernbly tram
country to
cddnlryx"

For it i... row a!
NAVIONAK ‘12
VIEW, mun mm
r, no t is 5mm,
N. v, mun.

lem Globetrotters and the Im-
pressions. Finally, I have yet
to witness, or hear of, a sins
gle Afro-American degrading
himself by willfully partici-
pating in that travesty of the
spoken word known euphemisr
tiwlly around Grinnell as the

“menaingful dialogue." One
attempt was made by the wh~
ites to subterfuge the Blacks
into one of these rhetorical
ping‘pong matches; this was
the hall meeting referred to
earlier. Most Blacks and some
of the enlightened whites pre-
sent immediately recognized
it for the farce that it was
and proceeded to squeezea few
chuckles out of the situation
before the professional inter-
relaters began to sweat and
fume in earnest, then stretcl‘r
ed out their legs and enjoyed
the show.

White uplifters and moral
watchers would do well to fold
low the Black example. If
there are great importunate
need of immediate solution,
let us take the discussion of
these problems out of the
toilets and put it back into the

true locale of rational~dis>
course, the saloon.

At the college convocational
of 1969, President Legget ut-
tered his now famous state
ment that John Milton’s Paras
dise Lost was as revc
dise Lost was as relevant as
the latest political develop-
ments, essays, etc. These stu-
dents present gaped, gasped,
then sneered and chuckled. At
that time, there was no jaw
hanging agape at a larger an*
gle (approximately 55 degr-
ees) then mine. Here it was
time to change the world, and
here was a man exhorting us
to read poetry.

On the other hand, if this
whooping and haying about ju-
cicial councils, line cutting,
whooping and bayng about jun
cicial councils, line cutting,
TV lounges, cheeseburger fr-
uctose/glucose ratios and bar
gus racial crises ~ if this
insipid blend of wowserism,
Public Hygiene metaphysics,
and frustrated meaningful di-
alogueism is relevance, then
give me John Milton.

Beware: Stolen Drug Is STP

Three weeks ago, a drug
thought to be MDA was stolen
from a student’s room. The
drug has been analyzed and
found to be STP. A number of
people have had bad trips with
the drug. The Revolving Door
recommends disposing of any
remnants of it immediately.
Any anonymous questions will
be accepted by Door co-chair-
men Jim Tederman (ext. 517)
or John Pfeffer (ext. 256).

The Door also released us-

age figures for April. Of 18
cases 12 were male. Half the
cases involved emotional
counseling, half were drug-
related. Eight people came to
the Door, four telephoned,and
six were visited in their
rooms. The early evening 7AII
shift accounted for 11 uses:
four came during the 11-7
night shift. Three people were

counseled outside regular
hours.

Questions lSD Gene Damage

(continued from page 3)

produce chromosomal aber-
rations in circulating leukor
cytes of users, of some pats
ients treated with the pure
drug and of children exposed
to the drug in utero. Without
corresponding aberrations in
the bone marrow, however,
chromosomal changes in Cir
culating leukocytes are una
likely to have any seriousme-
dical consequences. Regards
ing meiotic chromosomes, the
varied results obtainedmay be
due to differences in sensitir
vity of the strains of mice
used in the experiments. Our
own experiments in monkeys
were negative, but one cannot
extrapolate safely from anir
mals to man. The only pub-
lished meiotic study in hu-
mans was negative. Yet, even
ifa chemical causes no gross
chromosome abnormalities, it
may still produce gene or point
mutations in the chromosomes
of somatic or germinal cells.
The production of these phe
nomena by LSD remains to be

Step up to

JD’S RESTAURANT
922*1/2 Main
Mom-Sat. 5 to 10 pm.
Sunday-Noon to lo p.m.

demonstrated} An unusually
high incidence of spontaneous
abortions, miscarriages or
stillbirths among pregnant
LSD-users could be evidence
of such mutations. It mayalso
be related to the uterine-
specific actions of lysergic
acid and its derivatives. For
the time being, itseems wiser
to maintain a Wait’andrsee
attitude.

ABORTION

INFORMATION
AND
ASSISTANCE

CALL (215) 875‘ 5800

24 hours 7 days
FOR TOTALLY CONFIr
DENTIAL INFORMATION

w. msnnsnd cnl -
u. mu rsculibls pin-mm; d...
tcn sucnnc 1m .nc manual.

levvlzn mil s. cm.

with in. I. "Wk-i p...
terms it usudl‘lzd haipihlx.

Lml Ainrllm wnncut Dilly
ARS INT.

May 7, 1971

Performers End Concert Season

The year will be ended with

a bang by the Music Depart-
ment with a number of con-
certs this weekend and
throughout the coming week.

This afternoon at 4:15 in
Herrick, students will both
play and conduct a concert of
Concertos. Two piano col-r
certos, Haydn's, PlaYEd RY
Mary Sweeney and conducted
by Mary Kay Kasang, and
Bach’s, played by Sherry
Lyman and conducted by Floyd
Slatterback will be offered,
along with Telemann’s viola
concerto, played by Frances
Gray and Conducted by Eliza-
beth Aubrey.

Tonight at 8 in the South
Lounge, David Abel on violin
and James Wyly on harpsir
chord will presentan informal
concert of traditional harpsi~
chord music. Two of Bach’s
sonatas, those in A Major and
G Major and a Haydn sonata
in G Major will be played,
along with Buxtehude’s "Trio~
Sonata in F Major" and some
anonymous pieces for Rebec
and Keyboard.

A marathon concert, with
something for all musical
tastes will be held on Barber
Plaza this Sunday from Zuntil

5. There will be chamber
music ensembles, solo per-
formers, cello ensembles
performing music by Teles
mann, Bach, Beethoven, Bra—
hms, Bloch, Villa Lobos,
Bartok, Shastokovich, Roger
Franz (a Grinnell student)and
Others. The MusicDepartment
will be getting out more spe~
cific information later.
Sunday evening at 8 in the
South Lounge NathanSchwarz,
piano, and Bonnie Hampton,
cello, will present a concert
dedicated to the memory of
Igor Stravinsky, who died just
a few weeks ago. They will
present Seymour Shifrin‘s
“Music for Mourning", “So-
nata in F Major for Cello and
Piano" by Brahms and Bach's
”Partita No. 6 in E Minor."
The final concert of the sea-
son will bepr856ntedWednes‘
day night, May 12, at 8 in
Roberts Theatre. Music fac~
ulty members Nathan Sch-
warz, piano, Bonnie Hampton,
cello, Richard Howe, piano,
and James Fudge, baritone,
will join students in present-
ing a program of compositions
by Steven Syverud, Assistant
Professor of Music at Grin-
nell.

HeALTHV-FOOD "PICNIC.

wed ne‘: (Iaj

Maj I311

CENTML Wilts -dtnneitnc

[Telrsx

BIO
Renews
slew UP 1M THE RSI” Omca

FILMS ABOUT WILDTFINGS
Inciutil‘nj ‘PMEI fI/anIAnlé {lilm
rwnrcn FOR Pints All/D rule a.

OKGilNIL
RIO/l

DON'T FORGET DANISH MAID SNACKS FOR
YOUR PICNICS THIS SPRING.

DANISH MAID BAKERY

818 Fotirth Avenue

 

i, .» W‘cﬁﬂ

Summer '71

MANHATTANVILLE

Undergraduate and Graduate Counts for Men and We on
TWO FIVE-WEEK SESSIONS

ARTS, MUSIC, SCIENCES
AND TEACHER EDUCATION
Two Sessions:

June I4-July 15,-
July W-Augusl la

Day and evening courses open to
degree, non-degree and qualiﬁed
h'lgh school sludsnls

- Teacher celliﬁcoiion courses
. Residence fuellill'cs

- Air condilioned classrooms

MASTER OF ARTS PROGRAM
June I4 - July 22

For l97l Summer Session brochure wrile to

muster o4 Admlulcnx, Mouhallonvill- CeII-gl

- Recveohonol Iocililies
- special Ieclures, concerts, ﬁlms

/ Pvrthail, New York lam / (9m WHil- Plcln- «Moo

 

 

